In the wake of Harry Potter the popular Lemony Snicket books have been rushed into production and considering the less than promising prospect of Brad Silberling directing and Jim Carrey starring, I didn't really hold out much hope. It turns out that the film is surprisingly good and apart from The Incredibles this was the only big budget Hollywood film I truly enjoyed this year.Like Harry Potter, the Lemony Snicket books appeal to adults as well as to children but they are darker, funnier and more eccentric, making them more of a cult than the mainstream success of the Harry Potter series.If you've read the books, you may miss the clever word play and you may feel that the two older children are miscast. Unlike in the books, the boy doesn't come across as particularly brainy and the girl looks just a bit too sexy as Violet, reminiscent of a teenage Anjelina Jolie. Still they are better than some of the child actors in the Harry Potter series.On a visual level the film is simply stunning. True, some of it is reminiscent of Tim Burton as both Burton and Daniel Handler are strongly influenced by the work of the writer and illustrator Edward Gor ey. The look of the film is a highly stylized mixture of Edwardian times and the 1950's and convincingly brings to life the parallel universe of the books, where death is ever present and where the whole world has conspired to make the Baudelaire children's life a misery.Folding books two and three into the storyline of the first one, the plot feels episodic but it stays consistently entertaining. Not being a Jim Carrey fan I was worried about his involvement (I still think Richard E. Grant would have been the perfect choice) but he nails and certainly looks the part of evil, failed thespian Count Olaf and thankfully he doesn't end up dominating the film, turning it into the Jim Carrey show.The section involving Meryl Streep's fearful Aunt Josephine is the best part of the film. Taking place against backdrops reminiscent of Masaki Kobayashi's stylish horror classic Kwaidan, Lake Lachrymose is as beautiful as it is nightmarish. Make sure to stay for the beautifully animated credit sequence.

Having read none of the Lemony Snickett books, I was unsure of what to expect from this film.The film begins with a gentle introduction that quickly turns into a humorous, but noteworthy, disclaimer that the following film has dark underlying themes. The main characters are introduced (the three children) and almost instantly we are subjected to the news of the first in a series, or unfortunate events. The film is fast paced and sends the children from one unfortunate situation to another, with Jude Law doing a splendid job of narrating the story along the way. The children a likable and resourceful characters with good chemistry between the actors. You genuinely feel they care about each other and have a great desire to help each other out of these incredible situations.The real star of the show of course is Jim Carrey. This film provides the perfect platform for Mr Carrey to do what he does best, goof around and play over the top and outlandish characters. In this role Jim Carrey excels, never goofing off to much to undermine the credibility of the character, but being suitably over the top to convey the eccentric old count.Visually, the film is stunning, the sets look straight out of a Tim Burton film, the costumes are fantastic, the direction is splendid and does a fine job of progressing the story. The visual effects are tremendous and fit in with the tale perfectly, never distracting nor undermining.This film is quite dark for a children's film, but not dark in a sinister way, but dark in a spooky hallowe'en sort of way that kids love. Watching the film reminded me of reading Rhoal Dahl books as a child, with the over the top characters and out of this world situations.The plot of the film is fast paced, but contains good character development and plenty of action and adventure. I would recommend this film to children and adults alike.

Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events was a silent hit of 2004, I remember I wasn't too sure if I wanted to see it or not because it just looked too dark for what I thought it was intended to be, a family film. But I was looking for a movie to watch yesterday and decided to go ahead and give the movie a chance. While I still think it was too dark for a family film, I thought that it was still a great film and the crew did a remarkable job of bringing the story to life. Normally while Jim Carrey can over do his roles that have this type of character, he actually portrayed Count Orlof extremely well and did a terrific job. I'm in some ways surprised that he didn't get more notice for this film. He, Meryl Streep, Billy O'Connelly really brought Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events to life. The sets and costumes were marvelous and the story was a frightening but imaginative one that I'm sure any film fan would enjoy to watch.Three children: Klas, Violet, and Sunny have just lost their parents and home to a horrible fire. They are left in the hands of one of their "closest" friends, the scary looking and crazy Count Orlof. The count makes the kids do his chores and makes them cook dinner for him and his friends, but the one thing he does want is the children's inheritance from their parents. After attempting to kill them, they are taken to a safer guardian, but Orlof isn't going to give up so easily, he is going to go through as many guardians as it takes to get back these children.Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a terrific film, I was incredibly impressed, I'm glad I decided to give it a chance. It had good comic relief, but also had some thrilling moments, while I don't think it's a good idea to give this film completely to the kids, it's a family thriller type of film that I'm sure could be enjoyed. I know there are a lot of kids that wanna have a more grown up genre they could watch and this might be the film for them. I do recommend it for watch, this film is definitely worth the look. Not to mention, for once it was nice that they didn't over do it with the baby comedy, she was actually cute and funny. You'll see what I mean when you watch it, you'll be happy too, the kids are very likable and so are the rest of the characters.8/10

Some movies are just plain fun to watch. This is one.It's funny, it's dramatic and it's a great visual treat with Tim Burton-esquire wild images throughout. This is a superb job of combining great visuals, special effects and an entertaining story.The two kids, played by Emily Browning and Liam Aiken, should get top billing since they are in every scene while Jim Carrey is in about half. Everyone in this film is a hoot, especially Carrey who plays "Count Olaf" and then disguises himself by pretending to be other people throughout the story. Whomever he was playing he was hilarious. With his crazy persona, Carrey was good choice for this role. The lines he delivers are so hammy they make me just laugh out loud. I appreciated his work even more on the second viewing.The kids are likable, good-looking and decent actors and the "baby" is given the funniest "lines" in the movie - all in subtitles.This film is too dark for the little kids but fun for adolescents on up. There is almost no profanity in here and no sex. The sets are particularly strange and interesting, from the various houses to the clothing to the computer-enhanced scenery, with gorgeous colors. Make no mistake: this is a very pretty film with so many fascinating objects in here to view that even multiple viewings can't possibly pick them all up.Obviously, there is a lot to like. I hope there is a sequel.

LEMONY SNICKET'S A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS puts the spotlight on two kids who suffer an almost Dickensian fate complete with a villainous uncle, Count Olaf (JIM CARREY) and an eccentric Aunt Josephine (MERYL STREEP). The uncle wants to deprive them of their rightful inheritance and pulls all sorts of schemes to do exactly that, each time confronted by the clever children who are always able to escape his clutches.As the children, LIAM AIKEN and EMILY BROWNING are excellent and believable as they confront their wicked and devious uncle with methods of their own.Carrey is hilarious in his usual over-the-top sort of performance that suits the material and Meryl Streep is equally skillful in an amusing characterization as the aunt who is afraid of just about everything while supposedly taking charge of the three orphans that show up at her doorstep.The humor is cleverly imposed on all of the characters, especially Carrey, Streep and Timothy Spall who has a fine time in another good character role. Costumes, make-up, settings are all way above average with the look of the film closely resembling something Tim Burton would devise.A film that never got its due acclaim, it's well worth your time as a fascinating excursion into another world, both darkly grim and still intentionally humorous in conception. Thomas Newsman's score is a major asset, as is narration by Jude Law.

The end credits is a ten minute long cartoon of such incredible beauty that it is a great shame that most people will never watch it. Simply its some of the best animation to come out all year.While I can give the end credits a 10 out of 10 I can only give the rest of the film a begrudging 7 out of 10, although it should probably be a 6.5. Certainly this is a fantastically well made movie, that is for the most part very well acted but something is amiss in the tone of the film and so it never really is what it should be.The story of three children who's parents are killed and who are forced from guardian to guardian by the murderous acts of Count Oloff is pretty bleak. And with a title like "A Series of Unfortunate Events" you really can't expect dancing elves, but the film makers have chosen to add a vein of madcap silliness to the proceedings that works against the rest of the film. It seems as if they were afraid that the material was going to be seen as too dark, which is a shame since its clear from the sequences where they left well enough alone that the film could have stood on its own.Its a good movie, instead of the great one it wants to be.Definitely worth seeing.

How to make A movie off of such a series of thirteen books (eleven, at the present), which are deceivingly simple, yet filled with so many angles and hidden messages, symbolism, and very literary I will admit, is definitely a challenge. So my hat is off to Brad Silberling (the director), the screenwriter, Robert Gordon, and others for taking a stab at it. For they came up with a very decent film, if not what I had anticipated or hoped for.That is because, in my opinion, they are the kind of books that if each reader were asked to write a screenplay for them or direct a film of the Series of Unfortunate Events, each person's version would almost certainly differ greatly. They are just those kind of books. Very broad and open to interpretation, in a sense.I certainly expected the film to be much darker than it turned out to be - with its somewhat hopeful ending. That is the appeal of the books, after all, the overwhelming dreariness of the Baudelaire's cyclic circumstances.The emphasis in this film seemed to be on the art - the costumes, sets, lighting, FX, properties, even the creative and amusing end credits (if you get the opportunity, sit through them). Visually it was a very strong film, a fantastic film to feast one's eyes upon.Furthermore I enjoyed all the character parts, especially Meryl Streep as Aunt Josephine, and of course, Jim Carrey as the heinous and exceedingly repugnant (dare I type his name???) Count Olaf. I don't think the role of THE villain in Daniel Handler's tales could have been more perfectly cast. Jim Carrey IS Brett Helquist's illustration and Handler's monster come to life. Whenever there were shots of Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) with his face in close proximity to Violet, or Aunt Josephine, or anyone else, I kept thinking to myself "How can they stand being that close to him? How can they stand the foul odor that must be exuding from his sinister mouth?" Maybe I am too into these books... I guess that's why I was disappointed with the majority of reviewers who reviewed this film. They obviously have never read the books, or they would not have complained about Carrey's performance being very show-offy, in-the-face, vain, egotistical, over-the-top, contrived, just too much to take, fake - THAT IS Count Olaf in the books. That IS exactly who he is. If only they could have know that and then perhaps they might have more enjoyed the film.I think the film gave me an appreciation for the books that I didn't have before because of the fact they skipped over so many of the seemingly unimportant scenes, and altered many of the crucial ones.Jude Law was a good choice as narrator. I was surprised that they introduced the V.F.D. already. My brother and I both agree that the opening sequence featuring the Littlest Elf was hilarious. For anyone who has read the books, they will probably find the film very different in flavor from the books, but readers and non-readers alike should enjoy the movie very much, in any case. It was a shame Sunny's character was used mostly as comic relief, but the twins who played her were absolutely adorable. So there's some hodge-podge comments from an eager Canuck on the Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events movie.

I first heard of these books when I saw my younger brother reading  them. I got curious and when I saw they were making a movie was sure to  read the first three before seeing it. Right off the bat, I can tell  you that if you are a completely possessive fan of these books you  might be rather disappointed by this movie. The movie condenses books  "The Bad Beginning," "The Reptile Room," and "The Wide Window" by  slicing the first book in half and placing the other two inside of it,  like a sandwich. Of course in order for this to be possible the story  has to change to make it work, so some elements are not factual.  Combine this with Snicket's usually clever details in the book having  to be cut down and very loyal fans are going to be disappointed. The  movie also adds in a subplot that the first three books do not possess,  but that the later ones (according to my brother) do, so I was a bit  bothered by having that element ruined if i choose to read more of the  series.  I, however, understand the difference between books and movies, and  think that on the whole they succeeded in keeping the tone and  uniqueness of this series. Carrey as Olaf is wonderful and adds  something to a character that seems to be rather dry in the books and  the children are believable and easy to sympathize with. While humor  was scarce, the tone of the books is more clever than humorous anyway.  Overall my only issues are plot-wise and how this creates a choppy feel  to the film, but I don't know of a way it could have been done better.  The movie was well done with(as many are saying) excellent scenery,  costumes, etc., yet nothing made this film completely amazing. It is  however, worth the time and money and one should definitely read the  books. ~Steven C

First, let it be declared that in the media of movie, it is a downright shock that Nickelodeon's monicker appears in this film. It is by far, the best film they have ever made. Second, it is probably the only movie you will see made for children (supposedly) and containing a claymation elf holding a rifle.Second, let it be known that this movie is the most visually pleasing children's (live-action) film any of us will see for years. The costume design is amazing, from the strap-laden sunny to the neo-Gothic formality of Violet, and especially in the under-appreciated and subtle '60s formal-casual of Klaus, who looks like a miniature Harold from "Harold and Maude". The sets are equally beautiful, a spree of Burtonesque Gothic-Modern Post-Industrial Asymmetry, from the half formed carnage of The burnt Baudelaire Mansion to the perfectly executed closing credits, animated to perfection. Cinematography also plays an amazing roll on the parts of Violet and Klaus, where ingenious images are used to insert the audience into the minds of the genius Baudelaires.Last, the performances, only two that everyone has't heard; Jude Law's perfect narration, and The Hoffman Twins astonishing performance as Sunny. Law's performance is so on target that it never occurs that this voice is not the elusive and enigmatic pseudonym himself. He is the perfect compliment to the often exciting or disturbing actions being inflicted upon the accurately charming and intelligent Baudelaires. as for Sunny, they have performed the impossible in giving a perfect performance to an infant from an infant, in both the physical acting and the ingenious form of translation. The sequels are sure to be the greatest of series, even if the events be unfortunate as they have been.As an artist, this reviewer cannot help but give this movie a 10/10. It is his deep desire that you appreciate it as much as he, if not, well... ... that is rather... ... unfortunate.

If your childhood was anything like mine, at some point you whined to your parents or another adult, "That's not fair!"--at which point the adult blithely retorted, "Life's not fair." A hard lesson, sure, but one we all learn eventually--life isn't fair; people die, bad things happen to good people, and justice isn't always served. Lemony Snicket's "A Series of Unfortunate Events" books, in which siblings Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire start off being orphaned by a fire and then having things go downhill from there, embraces that philosophy with a dark, sly humor that is irresistible. Fortunately, Brad Silberling has kept the spirit of the series mostly intact with this film translation.The movie encompasses Snicket's first three books, in which Violet (Emily Browing), Klaus (Liam Aiken), and Sunny are foisted off on several guardians by the dimwitted executor of their parents' estate (Timothy Spall). The first and worst of these is Count Olaf (Jim Carrey), a thorough scoundrel who's after the kids' immense inheritance. The children manage to escape, and over the course of the film encounter a kindly snake enthusiast (Billy Connolly) and an ultra-hypochondriac (Meryl Streep), each of whom try to look after the children in their own way. But mostly the Baudelaires look after themselves, each resourceful in their own way--Violet invents contraptions with whatever is at hand, Klaus is a reference desk unto himself, and baby Sunny practices her teething on whatever (or whoever) is convenient. The trio share the sort of unique bond that can only come from having survived a long string of misadventures. Olaf pursues them throughout, aided by disguises which he considers brilliant and which fool everyone except, of course, the ever-observant Baudelaires.Most of the elements which make Snicket's books so appealing are present here: the entertaining characters, the cleverness of the children, Snicket's delightful black humor (given voice by Jude Law), and even the cunning reverse-psychology promotional scheme of the series (in which the reader/viewer is told, no really, you DON'T want to hear this story, go find something more cheerful, etc.). Carrey gleefully gnaws the scenery as Olaf, and indeed with such a character he can do no less. Browning and Aiken are quite appealing, but the real scene stealer is Sunny (played by twins Kara and Shelby Hoffman). Sunny does not actually speak, but her coos and gurgles are translated via subtitle in a dry and witty manner (another inspiration taken from the series). The production design (combining the best parts of Tim Burton and Edward Gory) creates a fanciful but accessible world which modern inventions like remote car-keys are wielded by characters who dress like they just stepped out of a Victorian melodrama.It is perhaps too much to ask that the film could have avoided a Hollywood-style attempt to soften its delightfully dreary outlook, or that Carrey could have gone the entire movie without having at least one sequence in which he's just required to be Jim Carrey. But this is kept to a minimum--as Violet herself says, there really is more good than bad here.

The movie was decent. I enjoyed it, certainly. Technically it was outstanding. Casting was good, sets were outstanding, costumes were very nice.As an adaptation of the books, however, this was horrendous. It was as if the writer had torn a quarter of the pages from the first three books, a few pages from books 4-9, and pasted them together in a random fashion to try and create a cohesive movie. Now, had I not read the books, I would have enjoyed this movie very much, so I have to give that to them, but as a fan, it was just a slap in the face.If you've read the books, don't see the movie, it will just enrage you. If you haven't, see the movie. It'll be very enjoyable. If, however, you decide to read the books afterwards, be aware that they are far darker than the movie shows, and the mystery is certainly deeper than some magnifying glass in Count Olaf's house. Do not think of them as kid stuff.7.5/10 for the movie, 2/10 for the adaptation.

Before entering the theatre, I'd never glanced at any of the "Lemony Snicket" books. I'd never even heard of them. Having seen the film, I'll make it a priority to take a look. The film has a strong "Harry Potter" feel, what with the heroic, much put-upon British children, and the fantastical setting. If J.K. Rowling had cast Lord Voldemort as a nefarious villain out to steal the Potter family fortune, and made Ron and Hermione Harry's siblings, I imagine it would look something like this. Jim Carrey swallows huge chunks of scenery in his portrayal of Count Olaf, one of the most despicable villains to grace the silver screen in a while. The four child actors are all superb, especially the very attractive Emily Browning as the inventor, Violet. The film comes with a wonderfully disturbing climax, and a enjoyably happy epilogue that hints at many future misfortunes for the Baudelaire children. I'll be there. 9/10.

First of all, let me go on record saying that I think this is a wonderfully entertaining film. The sets and costumes are perfect; even the little details like the odd instruments on the car dashboard were carefully thought through for their effect. Jim Carrey is perfect as Count Olaf and his disguises, partially because he has always been adept at creating convincing odd characters with his flexible face and voice. The kids were likable, even the cute baby. Thomas Newman's score is a quirky mix that's just right for the film. (I want to ask him if there's a reason why one of his themes sounds like "We Three Kings" gone awry.) I'm writing this comment primarily to respond to the wacky criticisms of LEMONY that I've been reading here on IMDb. Most fall into two categories: 1) people who don't "get" the movie and haven't read the books (and therefore are offended by its dark tone), or 2) adolescents who are obsessed with the books and are disappointed that their little dreams of how the movie should be haven't been perfectly realized (e.g., "the boy doesn't have glasses, so this movie stinks").Let me address the second group. WAKE UP!! The Lemony Snicket books are a pre-packaged, heavily-marketed series that was deliberately created to appeal to your age group...the Harry Potterites. Unlike the history of J. Rowling and the Potter books, the Snicket books were the result of some money-mad marketing guru coming up with the idea and finding a writer to execute it.The Snicket series is not "classic children's literature," although I must say that the actual author has done a fun job with the idea (yes, I have read several of the books, in case you're wondering). One Snicket book does NOT equal one Potter book in length or quality; therefore it's perfectly suitable that they put three Snickets together for this movie. The little gimmicks that made the early books amusing (the author's asides to define words, the translations of the baby's gurgles) become tediously annoying tics in the later books. And if you're going to have a tantrum because someone's hair isn't the color you imagined, or an actor is taller than you thought he should be, WELCOME TO THE REAL WORLD of movie adaptations! Perhaps if someone took liberties with Jane Austen, Dickens, or Tolstoy, it would be worth getting upset...but this is LEMONY SNICKET, for crying out loud! Read some real books for a change; not just cynically contrived kiddie lit designed to make big bucks with marketing deals and product tie-ins.And to the first group I say...lighten up and read a couple of the Snicket books before you lament about the "dark tone," or the abuse of children, etc., etc. It's part of the joke, and one of the aspects of the books that the producers did a good job conveying on screen. In fact, the movie even softened the tone a bit with the touching flashbacks about the missing parents, building a "sanctuary," etc.And what's with the wonderful, yet thrown-away closing credits? Seems to me these were made for the opening, but they realized that they would conflict with the "faux" Elf movie that starts the film. As someone else said, this is one of the most delightful parts of the film, but my son and I were the only ones who stayed to watch! DON'T LEAVE THE THEATER 'TIL IT'S OVER!

Lemony Snickets A Series of Unfortunate Events is a film adapted from a series of books. The movie is a pile of book chapters fumbled into a plot with it's characters, Jim Carrey is thrown in, and for that we have a weird world of stupid creatures and weird people. Boy this film was dumb. I like Jim Carrey and all that but he was all down and bad in this movie. No funny jokes at all and the scenery doesn't help. Oh no the leeches are attacking! The leeches? Stupid film with bad characters that totally mocks the books. This film is full of good talent that's wasted, not funny at all! Now the plot is three different stories tied into one that turns the characters through one obstacle to another, not that entertaining. Now do yourselves a favor and watch something else than this nightmare. Unfortunate Events gets the big 4, dull and boring. If you want to get a good nap, watch this film. It will knock yeah right out.

Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events starts as three young children, Violet (Emily Browning), her brother Klaus (Liam Aiken) & their sister Sunny Beaudelaire (Kara & Shelby Hoffman) are given the bad news that their parents have been killed in a fire which has burnt their house to the ground. They are adopted by a distant relative, the strange actor Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) who wants to kill them off to inherit their parents fortune. However the siblings quickly realise what Olaf is up to & must stay alert to outwit him & his attempts on their life as they search for the truth behind their parents death...This American German co-production was directed by Brad Silberling & is an entertaining enough Tim Burton/Grim Brother's dark fairytale type fantasy but I must admit it left me a bit unsatisfied. The script by Robert Gordon was based on the series of popular children's books Daniel Handler, in particular the first three The Bad Beginning, The Reptile Room & The Wide Window were used as the basis for the film, straight off the bat one has to say it's a children's film first & foremost although it's one of those children films which will probably appeal to adults as well. It's quite a grim film on occasion, it has some wonderfully spooky & dark production design & the narrator Lemony Snicket keeps telling us of horrible & terrible things that will happen but (disappointingly) it never goes too far. It certainly moves along at a nice pace, it's never boring but it never really excited me that much, it never really grabbed me, it never really got piqued my interest & it never really pulled me into the dark fantasy world that it creates. I didn't think it funny at all, again maybe because I'm an adult but I didn't laugh once. The character's are good enough, Count Olaf obviously stands out as the villain as he disguises himself as several different people to con his way to a fortune, Aunt Josephine is also memorable for her bizarre irrational fears although it's never quite explained who the narrator Lemony Snicket is.Director Silberling does a fine job & shoots the film with lots of neat little visual touches & lots of style, he is obviously helped by some truly wonderful production design from the sets, costumes & props. The designers have gone to town & the film looks great, from foggy beach's with picket fences, Count Olaf's gloomy rundown mansion that looks like something from The Addams Family, Dr. Montgomery's huge reptile sanctuary, Aunt Josephine's impossible house suspended over the edge of a sheer cliff by beams of wood, the speeding train & Count Olaf's sinister hearse looking car to a darkly atmospheric cave & lake. Most of the CGI computer effects are good although the deadly viper snake looks terrible. The violence is minimal so don't worry about that.With a supposed budget of about $140,000,000 this wasn't short of money was it? Most of the money seems to have been spent on a good cast & the sumptuous production design which is nothing short of amazing, unfortunately everything else is somewhat harder to find including a satisfying story. Shot entirely within studios the film also features a dummy start where a film called The Little Elf supposedly begins before Lemony interrupts & starts his own story. The acting is good, Carrey was born for roles like this, Meryl Streep is good & Scottish comedian Billy Connolly has a small role.Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a good solid & entertaining children's darkly grim fantasy which serves it's purpose well enough, certainly no classic in my opinion but it's definitely worth a watch all the same & it should keep both young & old alike quiet for 100 odd minutes if nothing else.

If someone had blinded me and took me to a preview of this movie and told me it was a Tim Burton movie I would have believed it. Still, in the end I would have left the theater with a bitter taste in my mouth. I mean the story is good, thanks to Lemony Snicket's (Daniel Handler) books, the sets are great, Jim Carrey is more calm than usual (thank god!)and Meryl Streep is wonderful as always. But still something would still be missing. The first thing I would notice would be the music. Far from Tim Burton's long time collaborator Danny Elfman, Thomas Newman in this case delivers a straightforward score with nothing to be remembered by. And you look at Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood, The Nightmare Before Christmas or the incredible Big Fish you start to see the difference. After all Brad Silberling is the same man who gave us the poor Casper and the remake of the Wim Wenders classic Wings of Desire called City of Angels, that was once again a watchable movie but far from Wender's genius. Still it's a good enough movie for the holyday season so... have fun.

OK...I really enjoyed the film and I felt it captured everything I wanted it to about the books and more. However, and while it may be an odd thing to say, is that was the best set of credits I've ever seen.They were beautifully done, well done to whoever it was that created them...the artwork was spectacular and the animation perfectly in tune with the tone of the books.very entertaining...well done!In addition I would like to add than Jim Carrey fitted the role of Count Olaf perfectly, and while I may not be a huge fan of his previous work he provided the much needed humour to keep the story moving the watcher intrigued

All the stops have been pulled out on this playfully sinister adaptation of the best-selling trilogy which plainly owes plenty to Roald Dahl with snazzy design and the casting of 'A' listers Meryl Streep and Dustin Hoffman.Despite being based on a book it uses cinematic devises like Pirandellian author Jude Law commenting on the action and subtitles translating the gurgles of a cute little toddler given to such improbably precocious observations as "I'll handle this!", "You can't be buying this!" and "What a schmuck!"Jim Carrey emerging from a crumbling pile straight out of 'Gormenghast' gives a performance that makes his earlier turn as Beetlejuice look almost subdued; an impression reinforced by the presence of Catherine O'Hara.

My Take: Jim Carrey at his outrageous self. An superb adaptation of the Snicket chronicles. I honestly say that I have always liked Jim Carrey's comedy movies, and he's also one of my favorite comedians (though I'm not much of a comedy fan). "Liar Liar" and "Bruce Almighty" were amongst my favorites of Carrey's wild antics. But when I viewed this film, I was surprised to see Jim Carrey in a whole new look. His performance here was of the villainous Count Olaf, and he was more than just making me laugh, but also a villainous character. He's really a villain here, but yet, you can't help but actually laugh at some of his antics. This is really he's best performance that I've seen. Surely, there would be more, but this is by far the best that I've seen (Though I haven't seen "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless mind"). Do I need to say that this movie was great? For I already see that many agree with me on that. A very colorful production, with excellent costume design, make-up and special effects, and yet, also a wonderful story, well pressed from Lemony Snicket's "unfortunate" account on the Baudelaire siblings. I wouldn't mind a franchise myself. There are still a few other books still left, so why not? Rating: **** out of 5.

The Baudelaire children lead a cushy life of reading books, inventing, and biting. One day at the beach Mr. Poe (Timothy Spall) informs them of the unfortunate event of their house and parents burning down. They have been shuffled around to various unrelated relatives. At every turn, they are perused by their uncle Count Olaf (Jim Carrey,) who covets their inheritance. Trying to explain this to grownups is almost impossible.Grate narration of the movie by Jude Law; he added a dimension that made you want to see what was happening next.The books offer such great (terrible) resources for the movie. However, it was a bit much trying to cram three books into one movie. Each book has more than enough storyline for a movie. The events were taken out of order which watered down the pathos and everyone could tell this even if they did not read the books. The details are there but we miss the purpose and the lessons.They chose just the right actors to play the Baudelaire brats, Violet, Klaus, and baby Sunny (Emily Browning, Liam Aiken, Kara, and Shelby Hoffman.) They did a great job of depicting the book characters. The addition of the underscore for Sunny was a notice touch.The only real negative part of the movie was using Jim Carry in the place of Count Olaf. He was too exaggerated even for Jim Carry and distracted from the spookiness of the story. What should have been spooky but see though the person turned out to be too clownish?They picked an excellent Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly) born and brought up in Glasgow, Scotland, looks and sounds like a cross between John Cleese and Sean Connery.During the ending credits, some great drawings make you think that this would have made a great cartoon series.

Another gimmick film from the Hollywood corn syrup and french fry factory. Any idea or concept that made the books good was voted out of the film by the committee meeting clones who oversee movie production. All we are left with is swooping camera work to fool us into thinking action is happening, lots of elaborate art design to make us think that money equals quality and crude humor to make us think that the film is "cutting edge".Feh.Jim Carrey, to his credit, takes his character to an extreme but is not countered by the child actors who are very bland. In their defense, they are not given much to do or are directed very well. The baby is actually the best of the trio but I tired of the stupid crude subtitles after the third one. Meryl Streep walks through her part. Cedric the Entertainer could have been replaced by the studio janitor for all he given to do. Why is Dustin Hoffman here? The "exciting" finale is so misdone, it's probably the most boring part of the film.The most applause should be reserved for the uncredited animation team who created the great end credits. This sequence evokes the books better then anything in the film. I would bet take this was originally intended for the opening of the film but someone realized that the audience would be ready to kill when they saw how the live action was going after the promise of the animation. A much better film in a similar vein is "Matilda".

It was wonderful. I'm sorry, skeptics, but it really was.The costumes were really unique. I liked how they seemed to draw inspiration from several different time periods.I really loved Liam Aiken and Emily Browning as Klaus and Violet Baudelaire- even though they didn't fit my mental images of the characters, they proved themselves over and over again throughout the course of the film. Emily Browning has a history of doing excellent films, and after seeing her in the comparatively small role of Ned Kelly's sister I had a lot of faith in her. I wasn't quite as sure about Liam Aiken because I hadn't seen any of his work, but I was pleasantly surprised.Sunny Baudelaire (as played by Kara and Shelby Hoffman) was just done perfectly. Everybody in the cinema laughed at the subtitles. I seriously didn't think that it was possible for two-year-olds to be good at acting, but the Hoffman twins convinced me otherwise.The musical score was brilliantly done and the sets were, in a word, epic. I felt *dizzy* whenever there were panoramic shots of Lake Lachrymose, for heaven's sakes! There were some scenes which were not in the books- such as the theme of sanctuary, the spyglasses, the lost letter from the Baudelaire parents. As a Lemony Snicket obsessive I expected to fume at these scenes, but they worked wonderfully.Keep an eye out for the hilarious 'Littlest Elf' sequence at the beginning and the amazing animated credits (complete with a song from the film 'The Addams Family', possibly a nod to Barry Sonnenfield, who is credited as a producer).I am giving this film a 9 out of 10 simply because I am a fan of the books and there were a couple of story details I felt could have been communicated better.Excellent stuff! If there are any sequels, they can only improve.

Jim Carrey is brilliantly evil, cunning, overdramatic, and insane as Count Olaf, whose constantly scheming to steal the orphan Baudelaire children's family fortune. Perfect casting for this role, he really showcases his comedic timing and comedic - with a side of dramatic - acting range. The main trio of kid characters are well casted, nailing the look and acting the part. This film version covers the first three books in Lemony Snicket's series, consolidating them into a neatly summarized story and plot. The production design is incredible, capturing the gloomy despair and gothic feel, super Tim Burton-esque without even being directed by him lol. The sharp, kinetic cinematography is a shiny standout for this film, really elevating the quality of the scenes and mise en scène. Such a huge shame that a sequel with the same cast had never materialized, so much potential down the drain. A great dark comedy drama that is NOT A KID-FRIENDLY film regardless of what naysayers state.

Violet (Emily Browning), Klaus (Liam Aiken) and Sunny Baudelaire (Kara Hoffman) are three clever and reasonably attractive orphans. Violet loves to invent. Klaus loves to read. Sunny enjoys to bite. When their parents die in a fire, they are left an enormous fortune that can't be used until Violet comes of age. They are sent to live with greedy distant relative Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) who tries to steal the fortune for himself. Next they're given to live with Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly) and his snakes. When Olaf kills Monty, they're given to fearful Aunt Josephine (Meryl Streep) next.This has a great look. It has a grim beauty. Even with the makeup, there is no denying that it's pure Jim Carrey. He's really mugging for the camera. It's interesting for a few minutes but it wears terribly thin. There's a little bit of hitting. There's a bit of attempted child killing. He needs to be more concerned about being a villain rather than being a comedian. No adults ever listen to the kids which gets very repetitive and tiresome. In fact, the whole structure of the movie is quite repetitive. All the adults are brain-dead. It's forced to keep stopping after every death. The other characters don't have enough time to develop chemistry. Then the movie goes into child bride territory. It's weird without being quirky and definitely not funny.

Visually flawless, with a great cast and direction. So it can be described Lemony Snicket, which debuts in theaters as an alternative to other series for young people, like Harry Potter. Brad Silberling is who is ahead of this adaptation of the books by Lemony Snicket (Daniel Handler heteronym) and illustrated by Brett Helquist. Lemony Snicket is a collection composed of thirteen books and narrate the adventures of the Baudelaire siblings after the death of his parents in a fire. Handler looking for a publisher for his first novel entitled "The Basic Eight". One of the publishers do not accept the novel but wanted him to write a children's book. While not enjoying it at first, Handler has modified a manuscript he had written for adults, who possessed a more gothic tone and sarcastic, and ended up making it into a "Gothic novel about children growing up in dire situations," a concept that appealed to editors .By the amount of books published and the potential of each of the stories before his audience, probably the best solution for this series in film was filming the 13 episodes on 3 separate stories for film, released once a year. Thus the three stories of each film could be better developed and still leave in anticipation for the next adventure in the subsequent films. The script was provided by Robert Gordon, who had previously scripted MIB - Men in Black II in 2002. Just not sure of the production of other stories, Gordon chose to synthesize the various books and had its script based on the first three books in the series, with some modifications. The books are: "The Bad Beginning", "The Reptile Room" and "The Lake of Leeches." In addition, he had to leave the plot with a beginning, middle and end, but still leaving some hooks for possible future sequences. Gordon has structured his script exactly like the books, the adventures of brothers separated by chapters, and in each one of them would be in the house of each one of the tutors, and only then perform the connecting links in the climax, which would solve the doubts that arise about the unexplained death of his parents.The script tells the story of Klaus (Liam Aiken), Violet (Emily Browning) and Sunny (Kara Hoffman / Shelby Hoffman), who are three brothers who were at Briny Beach suddenly receive the news that his parents died in a fire. How are minors, they can not even inherit the fortune of her parents, which only occurs when Violet, the oldest, turns 18. The trio then goes to live with Count Olaf (Jim Carrey), a distant relative rather greedy, they want to take the children's fortune for himself. But before Count Olaf put his main plan into action, children sometimes change tutor, and taken by Mr. Poe (Timothy Spall), come to the house of Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly), a breeder of reptiles, and the Aunt Josephine (Meryl Streep), full of fears and loves grammar. But to achieve its goal, Olaf not measure consequences.Daniel Handler has created a story with anachronistic ambiance, and full of literary allusions and cultural. The setting seems to have much stylistic similarities with the nineteenth century as in the 1930s, but with contemporary scientific knowledge, and apparently anachronistic. These differences are best explained in the following volumes of books in the series. Even as a book for children, many details will be understood only by adults. Many of the names of characters, for example, allude to other fictional works or real people with macabre connections. In literary references, The Briny Beach is a reference to Lewis Carroll's poem, "The Walrus and the Carpenter". Important to note that the adaptation of Robert Gordon is very faithful to its original, but by modifying some detail, making a connection histories were apparent. For example, the plot begins with the story of "The Bad Beginning", go to "The Reptile Room" and "The Lake of Leeches", and ends with the climax of the first book. Virtually all the passages of the books are present, but some of the books changes were felt in the film as the lack of glasses Klaus and constant coughing of Mr. Poe.For those who are watching the movie and do not know who is its director, might well think that this is a work of Tim Burton. But is Brad Silberling (Casper (1995), City of Angels (1999) and Moonlight Mile (2002)) who runs with great competence. The look of the film is breathtaking. The photography Emmanuel Lubezki transports us directly to the dark and gothic visual scenarios portrayed. The indoor FAEM always use dark tones, dirty, with good use of shadows and natural light. Production designer Rick Heinrichs and set decorator Cheryl Carasik perform an exquisite work. From the street facades of the tutors, even the interiors are masterfully reproduced. The large interior of the house of Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) is grim, dirty, old, disgusting, matching well with its owner. Early on we see the contrast of the house of the sinister Count Olaf hiring with the "normal" house quiet and Justice Strauss (Catherine O'Hara), her neighbor. The home of Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly) with his Reptile Room, showing him all the fascination for these animals. The Aunt Josephine (Meryl Streep) is breathtaking. The structure of the house located on the edge of Lake Lachrymose, its well detailed interior that reflects the eccentricity of Josephine and her love of grammar as a huge library, besides the huge window overlooking the lake. There is also the scene of the train tracks. A curious fact is that in spite of this scene of the film seem to pass in the 30s, Count Olaf's car has electronic locks.The production, with a high cost of $ 140 million, much of that amount is applied in efficient visual effects. We have some scenes very well done. We have a scene of danger almost trampling on a rail, some involving frogs and snakes, a scenario burned (especially the final scenes when the brothers enter the house and the image they had of it will be deconstructed until it is shown all burnt) , and scenes involving leeches, and especially the spectacular scene of destruction objects and own Aunt Josephine. Effects are very realistic that make up the main and most complex scene involving effects on long. In this particular scene, the junction of the effects, with photography and art direction are an example of working together.The period costumes by Colleen Atwood also made matching the visual scenarios and characters. We can not also forget the makeup work Oscar winner. Valli O'Reilly and Bill Corso perform perfect characterizations to the protagonists, and especially the villain. To get an idea, the makeup worn by Jim Carrey in this movie took 3 hours to be prepared. Already Thomas Newman, composer responsible for The Green Mile (1999) and Angels in America (2003), composes a flawless track that mixes moments of adventure, action, mystery and drama. The end of the film is to hold back the tears at the scene of reading a letter.The cast does a commendable job. The children are all at a high level of interpretation. Liam Aiken is Klaus, who is 12 years old, a lover of books and uses his knowledge to find ways to escape from Count Olaf. The beautiful and stunning Emily Browning is flawless. Looking like a doll-sized. Besides filling our eyes, the actress plays with great naturalness and shows enormous talent.Violet is 14 years old and is the oldest of the brothers. It is a great inventor and when you have an idea holds your hair not to disturb his concentration. Until the baby Sunny, played by sisters Kara Hoffman and Shelby Hoffman, does well. The baby is beautiful, charismatic and gets lots of laughs from the audience to give life to the girl who has an incredible ability to bite and a vocabulary somewhat understandable that the public is always subtitled. Besides the players, we have Jim Carrey, who despite being a bit exaggerated, since the books Count Olaf is much more dangerous than comic. Yet the characteristics of Conde are well built mainly by makeup. Some visual details were accented, as amended eyebrows, the eye-shaped tattoo and thinness of the character.There are even Meryl Streep, with a fun interpretation of paranoid Aunt Josephine, and special participation of other names such as Jude Law, who lends his voice and interpretation in the shadows to Lemony Snicket, Catherine O'Hara as Justice Strauss Billy Connolly as the Uncle Monty, Timothy Spall as the guardian of the rights of children, Jennifer Coolidge as the woman pale face and, of course, Dustin Hoffman as the critical present in the play staged by Count Olaf in the final film.Brad Silberling and Robert Gordon managed to capture well the sense of humor that is in the books and even increased the gloomy weather not so common for readers age that books are targeted. The mixture of the somber mood with humor is the great secret of production. The script is smart in a compilation of ideas, while making it clear that life is not so simple for children, highlights the importance of abstract virtues increasingly relegated to oblivion, like innocence, imagination, family unity , love and good will always triumph in the end.

In the wake of Harry Potter the popular Lemony Snicket books have been rushed into production and considering the less than promising prospect of Brad Silberling directing and Jim Carrey starring, I didn't really hold out much hope. It turns out that the film is surprisingly good and apart from The Incredibles this was the only big budget Hollywood film I truly enjoyed this year.Like Harry Potter, the Lemony Snicket books appeal to adults as well as to children but they are darker, funnier and more eccentric, making them more of a cult than the mainstream success of the Harry Potter series.If you've read the books, you may miss the clever word play and you may feel that the two older children are miscast. Unlike in the books, the boy doesn't come across as particularly brainy and the girl looks just a bit too sexy as Violet, reminiscent of a teenage Anjelina Jolie. Still they are better than some of the child actors in the Harry Potter series.On a visual level the film is simply stunning. True, some of it is reminiscent of Tim Burton as both Burton and Daniel Handler are strongly influenced by the work of the writer and illustrator Edward Gor ey. The look of the film is a highly stylized mixture of Edwardian times and the 1950's and convincingly brings to life the parallel universe of the books, where death is ever present and where the whole world has conspired to make the Baudelaire children's life a misery.Folding books two and three into the storyline of the first one, the plot feels episodic but it stays consistently entertaining. Not being a Jim Carrey fan I was worried about his involvement (I still think Richard E. Grant would have been the perfect choice) but he nails and certainly looks the part of evil, failed thespian Count Olaf and thankfully he doesn't end up dominating the film, turning it into the Jim Carrey show.The section involving Meryl Streep's fearful Aunt Josephine is the best part of the film. Taking place against backdrops reminiscent of Masaki Kobayashi's stylish horror classic Kwaidan, Lake Lachrymose is as beautiful as it is nightmarish. Make sure to stay for the beautifully animated credit sequence.

Having read none of the Lemony Snickett books, I was unsure of what to expect from this film.The film begins with a gentle introduction that quickly turns into a humorous, but noteworthy, disclaimer that the following film has dark underlying themes. The main characters are introduced (the three children) and almost instantly we are subjected to the news of the first in a series, or unfortunate events. The film is fast paced and sends the children from one unfortunate situation to another, with Jude Law doing a splendid job of narrating the story along the way. The children a likable and resourceful characters with good chemistry between the actors. You genuinely feel they care about each other and have a great desire to help each other out of these incredible situations.The real star of the show of course is Jim Carrey. This film provides the perfect platform for Mr Carrey to do what he does best, goof around and play over the top and outlandish characters. In this role Jim Carrey excels, never goofing off to much to undermine the credibility of the character, but being suitably over the top to convey the eccentric old count.Visually, the film is stunning, the sets look straight out of a Tim Burton film, the costumes are fantastic, the direction is splendid and does a fine job of progressing the story. The visual effects are tremendous and fit in with the tale perfectly, never distracting nor undermining.This film is quite dark for a children's film, but not dark in a sinister way, but dark in a spooky hallowe'en sort of way that kids love. Watching the film reminded me of reading Rhoal Dahl books as a child, with the over the top characters and out of this world situations.The plot of the film is fast paced, but contains good character development and plenty of action and adventure. I would recommend this film to children and adults alike.

Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events was a silent hit of 2004, I remember I wasn't too sure if I wanted to see it or not because it just looked too dark for what I thought it was intended to be, a family film. But I was looking for a movie to watch yesterday and decided to go ahead and give the movie a chance. While I still think it was too dark for a family film, I thought that it was still a great film and the crew did a remarkable job of bringing the story to life. Normally while Jim Carrey can over do his roles that have this type of character, he actually portrayed Count Orlof extremely well and did a terrific job. I'm in some ways surprised that he didn't get more notice for this film. He, Meryl Streep, Billy O'Connelly really brought Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events to life. The sets and costumes were marvelous and the story was a frightening but imaginative one that I'm sure any film fan would enjoy to watch.Three children: Klas, Violet, and Sunny have just lost their parents and home to a horrible fire. They are left in the hands of one of their "closest" friends, the scary looking and crazy Count Orlof. The count makes the kids do his chores and makes them cook dinner for him and his friends, but the one thing he does want is the children's inheritance from their parents. After attempting to kill them, they are taken to a safer guardian, but Orlof isn't going to give up so easily, he is going to go through as many guardians as it takes to get back these children.Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a terrific film, I was incredibly impressed, I'm glad I decided to give it a chance. It had good comic relief, but also had some thrilling moments, while I don't think it's a good idea to give this film completely to the kids, it's a family thriller type of film that I'm sure could be enjoyed. I know there are a lot of kids that wanna have a more grown up genre they could watch and this might be the film for them. I do recommend it for watch, this film is definitely worth the look. Not to mention, for once it was nice that they didn't over do it with the baby comedy, she was actually cute and funny. You'll see what I mean when you watch it, you'll be happy too, the kids are very likable and so are the rest of the characters.8/10

Some movies are just plain fun to watch. This is one.It's funny, it's dramatic and it's a great visual treat with Tim Burton-esquire wild images throughout. This is a superb job of combining great visuals, special effects and an entertaining story.The two kids, played by Emily Browning and Liam Aiken, should get top billing since they are in every scene while Jim Carrey is in about half. Everyone in this film is a hoot, especially Carrey who plays "Count Olaf" and then disguises himself by pretending to be other people throughout the story. Whomever he was playing he was hilarious. With his crazy persona, Carrey was good choice for this role. The lines he delivers are so hammy they make me just laugh out loud. I appreciated his work even more on the second viewing.The kids are likable, good-looking and decent actors and the "baby" is given the funniest "lines" in the movie - all in subtitles.This film is too dark for the little kids but fun for adolescents on up. There is almost no profanity in here and no sex. The sets are particularly strange and interesting, from the various houses to the clothing to the computer-enhanced scenery, with gorgeous colors. Make no mistake: this is a very pretty film with so many fascinating objects in here to view that even multiple viewings can't possibly pick them all up.Obviously, there is a lot to like. I hope there is a sequel.

LEMONY SNICKET'S A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS puts the spotlight on two kids who suffer an almost Dickensian fate complete with a villainous uncle, Count Olaf (JIM CARREY) and an eccentric Aunt Josephine (MERYL STREEP). The uncle wants to deprive them of their rightful inheritance and pulls all sorts of schemes to do exactly that, each time confronted by the clever children who are always able to escape his clutches.As the children, LIAM AIKEN and EMILY BROWNING are excellent and believable as they confront their wicked and devious uncle with methods of their own.Carrey is hilarious in his usual over-the-top sort of performance that suits the material and Meryl Streep is equally skillful in an amusing characterization as the aunt who is afraid of just about everything while supposedly taking charge of the three orphans that show up at her doorstep.The humor is cleverly imposed on all of the characters, especially Carrey, Streep and Timothy Spall who has a fine time in another good character role. Costumes, make-up, settings are all way above average with the look of the film closely resembling something Tim Burton would devise.A film that never got its due acclaim, it's well worth your time as a fascinating excursion into another world, both darkly grim and still intentionally humorous in conception. Thomas Newsman's score is a major asset, as is narration by Jude Law.

The end credits is a ten minute long cartoon of such incredible beauty that it is a great shame that most people will never watch it. Simply its some of the best animation to come out all year.While I can give the end credits a 10 out of 10 I can only give the rest of the film a begrudging 7 out of 10, although it should probably be a 6.5. Certainly this is a fantastically well made movie, that is for the most part very well acted but something is amiss in the tone of the film and so it never really is what it should be.The story of three children who's parents are killed and who are forced from guardian to guardian by the murderous acts of Count Oloff is pretty bleak. And with a title like "A Series of Unfortunate Events" you really can't expect dancing elves, but the film makers have chosen to add a vein of madcap silliness to the proceedings that works against the rest of the film. It seems as if they were afraid that the material was going to be seen as too dark, which is a shame since its clear from the sequences where they left well enough alone that the film could have stood on its own.Its a good movie, instead of the great one it wants to be.Definitely worth seeing.

How to make A movie off of such a series of thirteen books (eleven, at the present), which are deceivingly simple, yet filled with so many angles and hidden messages, symbolism, and very literary I will admit, is definitely a challenge. So my hat is off to Brad Silberling (the director), the screenwriter, Robert Gordon, and others for taking a stab at it. For they came up with a very decent film, if not what I had anticipated or hoped for.That is because, in my opinion, they are the kind of books that if each reader were asked to write a screenplay for them or direct a film of the Series of Unfortunate Events, each person's version would almost certainly differ greatly. They are just those kind of books. Very broad and open to interpretation, in a sense.I certainly expected the film to be much darker than it turned out to be - with its somewhat hopeful ending. That is the appeal of the books, after all, the overwhelming dreariness of the Baudelaire's cyclic circumstances.The emphasis in this film seemed to be on the art - the costumes, sets, lighting, FX, properties, even the creative and amusing end credits (if you get the opportunity, sit through them). Visually it was a very strong film, a fantastic film to feast one's eyes upon.Furthermore I enjoyed all the character parts, especially Meryl Streep as Aunt Josephine, and of course, Jim Carrey as the heinous and exceedingly repugnant (dare I type his name???) Count Olaf. I don't think the role of THE villain in Daniel Handler's tales could have been more perfectly cast. Jim Carrey IS Brett Helquist's illustration and Handler's monster come to life. Whenever there were shots of Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) with his face in close proximity to Violet, or Aunt Josephine, or anyone else, I kept thinking to myself "How can they stand being that close to him? How can they stand the foul odor that must be exuding from his sinister mouth?" Maybe I am too into these books... I guess that's why I was disappointed with the majority of reviewers who reviewed this film. They obviously have never read the books, or they would not have complained about Carrey's performance being very show-offy, in-the-face, vain, egotistical, over-the-top, contrived, just too much to take, fake - THAT IS Count Olaf in the books. That IS exactly who he is. If only they could have know that and then perhaps they might have more enjoyed the film.I think the film gave me an appreciation for the books that I didn't have before because of the fact they skipped over so many of the seemingly unimportant scenes, and altered many of the crucial ones.Jude Law was a good choice as narrator. I was surprised that they introduced the V.F.D. already. My brother and I both agree that the opening sequence featuring the Littlest Elf was hilarious. For anyone who has read the books, they will probably find the film very different in flavor from the books, but readers and non-readers alike should enjoy the movie very much, in any case. It was a shame Sunny's character was used mostly as comic relief, but the twins who played her were absolutely adorable. So there's some hodge-podge comments from an eager Canuck on the Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events movie.

I first heard of these books when I saw my younger brother reading  them. I got curious and when I saw they were making a movie was sure to  read the first three before seeing it. Right off the bat, I can tell  you that if you are a completely possessive fan of these books you  might be rather disappointed by this movie. The movie condenses books  "The Bad Beginning," "The Reptile Room," and "The Wide Window" by  slicing the first book in half and placing the other two inside of it,  like a sandwich. Of course in order for this to be possible the story  has to change to make it work, so some elements are not factual.  Combine this with Snicket's usually clever details in the book having  to be cut down and very loyal fans are going to be disappointed. The  movie also adds in a subplot that the first three books do not possess,  but that the later ones (according to my brother) do, so I was a bit  bothered by having that element ruined if i choose to read more of the  series.  I, however, understand the difference between books and movies, and  think that on the whole they succeeded in keeping the tone and  uniqueness of this series. Carrey as Olaf is wonderful and adds  something to a character that seems to be rather dry in the books and  the children are believable and easy to sympathize with. While humor  was scarce, the tone of the books is more clever than humorous anyway.  Overall my only issues are plot-wise and how this creates a choppy feel  to the film, but I don't know of a way it could have been done better.  The movie was well done with(as many are saying) excellent scenery,  costumes, etc., yet nothing made this film completely amazing. It is  however, worth the time and money and one should definitely read the  books. ~Steven C

First, let it be declared that in the media of movie, it is a downright shock that Nickelodeon's monicker appears in this film. It is by far, the best film they have ever made. Second, it is probably the only movie you will see made for children (supposedly) and containing a claymation elf holding a rifle.Second, let it be known that this movie is the most visually pleasing children's (live-action) film any of us will see for years. The costume design is amazing, from the strap-laden sunny to the neo-Gothic formality of Violet, and especially in the under-appreciated and subtle '60s formal-casual of Klaus, who looks like a miniature Harold from "Harold and Maude". The sets are equally beautiful, a spree of Burtonesque Gothic-Modern Post-Industrial Asymmetry, from the half formed carnage of The burnt Baudelaire Mansion to the perfectly executed closing credits, animated to perfection. Cinematography also plays an amazing roll on the parts of Violet and Klaus, where ingenious images are used to insert the audience into the minds of the genius Baudelaires.Last, the performances, only two that everyone has't heard; Jude Law's perfect narration, and The Hoffman Twins astonishing performance as Sunny. Law's performance is so on target that it never occurs that this voice is not the elusive and enigmatic pseudonym himself. He is the perfect compliment to the often exciting or disturbing actions being inflicted upon the accurately charming and intelligent Baudelaires. as for Sunny, they have performed the impossible in giving a perfect performance to an infant from an infant, in both the physical acting and the ingenious form of translation. The sequels are sure to be the greatest of series, even if the events be unfortunate as they have been.As an artist, this reviewer cannot help but give this movie a 10/10. It is his deep desire that you appreciate it as much as he, if not, well... ... that is rather... ... unfortunate.

If your childhood was anything like mine, at some point you whined to your parents or another adult, "That's not fair!"--at which point the adult blithely retorted, "Life's not fair." A hard lesson, sure, but one we all learn eventually--life isn't fair; people die, bad things happen to good people, and justice isn't always served. Lemony Snicket's "A Series of Unfortunate Events" books, in which siblings Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudelaire start off being orphaned by a fire and then having things go downhill from there, embraces that philosophy with a dark, sly humor that is irresistible. Fortunately, Brad Silberling has kept the spirit of the series mostly intact with this film translation.The movie encompasses Snicket's first three books, in which Violet (Emily Browing), Klaus (Liam Aiken), and Sunny are foisted off on several guardians by the dimwitted executor of their parents' estate (Timothy Spall). The first and worst of these is Count Olaf (Jim Carrey), a thorough scoundrel who's after the kids' immense inheritance. The children manage to escape, and over the course of the film encounter a kindly snake enthusiast (Billy Connolly) and an ultra-hypochondriac (Meryl Streep), each of whom try to look after the children in their own way. But mostly the Baudelaires look after themselves, each resourceful in their own way--Violet invents contraptions with whatever is at hand, Klaus is a reference desk unto himself, and baby Sunny practices her teething on whatever (or whoever) is convenient. The trio share the sort of unique bond that can only come from having survived a long string of misadventures. Olaf pursues them throughout, aided by disguises which he considers brilliant and which fool everyone except, of course, the ever-observant Baudelaires.Most of the elements which make Snicket's books so appealing are present here: the entertaining characters, the cleverness of the children, Snicket's delightful black humor (given voice by Jude Law), and even the cunning reverse-psychology promotional scheme of the series (in which the reader/viewer is told, no really, you DON'T want to hear this story, go find something more cheerful, etc.). Carrey gleefully gnaws the scenery as Olaf, and indeed with such a character he can do no less. Browning and Aiken are quite appealing, but the real scene stealer is Sunny (played by twins Kara and Shelby Hoffman). Sunny does not actually speak, but her coos and gurgles are translated via subtitle in a dry and witty manner (another inspiration taken from the series). The production design (combining the best parts of Tim Burton and Edward Gory) creates a fanciful but accessible world which modern inventions like remote car-keys are wielded by characters who dress like they just stepped out of a Victorian melodrama.It is perhaps too much to ask that the film could have avoided a Hollywood-style attempt to soften its delightfully dreary outlook, or that Carrey could have gone the entire movie without having at least one sequence in which he's just required to be Jim Carrey. But this is kept to a minimum--as Violet herself says, there really is more good than bad here.

The movie was decent. I enjoyed it, certainly. Technically it was outstanding. Casting was good, sets were outstanding, costumes were very nice.As an adaptation of the books, however, this was horrendous. It was as if the writer had torn a quarter of the pages from the first three books, a few pages from books 4-9, and pasted them together in a random fashion to try and create a cohesive movie. Now, had I not read the books, I would have enjoyed this movie very much, so I have to give that to them, but as a fan, it was just a slap in the face.If you've read the books, don't see the movie, it will just enrage you. If you haven't, see the movie. It'll be very enjoyable. If, however, you decide to read the books afterwards, be aware that they are far darker than the movie shows, and the mystery is certainly deeper than some magnifying glass in Count Olaf's house. Do not think of them as kid stuff.7.5/10 for the movie, 2/10 for the adaptation.

Before entering the theatre, I'd never glanced at any of the "Lemony Snicket" books. I'd never even heard of them. Having seen the film, I'll make it a priority to take a look. The film has a strong "Harry Potter" feel, what with the heroic, much put-upon British children, and the fantastical setting. If J.K. Rowling had cast Lord Voldemort as a nefarious villain out to steal the Potter family fortune, and made Ron and Hermione Harry's siblings, I imagine it would look something like this. Jim Carrey swallows huge chunks of scenery in his portrayal of Count Olaf, one of the most despicable villains to grace the silver screen in a while. The four child actors are all superb, especially the very attractive Emily Browning as the inventor, Violet. The film comes with a wonderfully disturbing climax, and a enjoyably happy epilogue that hints at many future misfortunes for the Baudelaire children. I'll be there. 9/10.

First of all, let me go on record saying that I think this is a wonderfully entertaining film. The sets and costumes are perfect; even the little details like the odd instruments on the car dashboard were carefully thought through for their effect. Jim Carrey is perfect as Count Olaf and his disguises, partially because he has always been adept at creating convincing odd characters with his flexible face and voice. The kids were likable, even the cute baby. Thomas Newman's score is a quirky mix that's just right for the film. (I want to ask him if there's a reason why one of his themes sounds like "We Three Kings" gone awry.) I'm writing this comment primarily to respond to the wacky criticisms of LEMONY that I've been reading here on IMDb. Most fall into two categories: 1) people who don't "get" the movie and haven't read the books (and therefore are offended by its dark tone), or 2) adolescents who are obsessed with the books and are disappointed that their little dreams of how the movie should be haven't been perfectly realized (e.g., "the boy doesn't have glasses, so this movie stinks").Let me address the second group. WAKE UP!! The Lemony Snicket books are a pre-packaged, heavily-marketed series that was deliberately created to appeal to your age group...the Harry Potterites. Unlike the history of J. Rowling and the Potter books, the Snicket books were the result of some money-mad marketing guru coming up with the idea and finding a writer to execute it.The Snicket series is not "classic children's literature," although I must say that the actual author has done a fun job with the idea (yes, I have read several of the books, in case you're wondering). One Snicket book does NOT equal one Potter book in length or quality; therefore it's perfectly suitable that they put three Snickets together for this movie. The little gimmicks that made the early books amusing (the author's asides to define words, the translations of the baby's gurgles) become tediously annoying tics in the later books. And if you're going to have a tantrum because someone's hair isn't the color you imagined, or an actor is taller than you thought he should be, WELCOME TO THE REAL WORLD of movie adaptations! Perhaps if someone took liberties with Jane Austen, Dickens, or Tolstoy, it would be worth getting upset...but this is LEMONY SNICKET, for crying out loud! Read some real books for a change; not just cynically contrived kiddie lit designed to make big bucks with marketing deals and product tie-ins.And to the first group I say...lighten up and read a couple of the Snicket books before you lament about the "dark tone," or the abuse of children, etc., etc. It's part of the joke, and one of the aspects of the books that the producers did a good job conveying on screen. In fact, the movie even softened the tone a bit with the touching flashbacks about the missing parents, building a "sanctuary," etc.And what's with the wonderful, yet thrown-away closing credits? Seems to me these were made for the opening, but they realized that they would conflict with the "faux" Elf movie that starts the film. As someone else said, this is one of the most delightful parts of the film, but my son and I were the only ones who stayed to watch! DON'T LEAVE THE THEATER 'TIL IT'S OVER!

Lemony Snickets A Series of Unfortunate Events is a film adapted from a series of books. The movie is a pile of book chapters fumbled into a plot with it's characters, Jim Carrey is thrown in, and for that we have a weird world of stupid creatures and weird people. Boy this film was dumb. I like Jim Carrey and all that but he was all down and bad in this movie. No funny jokes at all and the scenery doesn't help. Oh no the leeches are attacking! The leeches? Stupid film with bad characters that totally mocks the books. This film is full of good talent that's wasted, not funny at all! Now the plot is three different stories tied into one that turns the characters through one obstacle to another, not that entertaining. Now do yourselves a favor and watch something else than this nightmare. Unfortunate Events gets the big 4, dull and boring. If you want to get a good nap, watch this film. It will knock yeah right out.

Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events starts as three young children, Violet (Emily Browning), her brother Klaus (Liam Aiken) & their sister Sunny Beaudelaire (Kara & Shelby Hoffman) are given the bad news that their parents have been killed in a fire which has burnt their house to the ground. They are adopted by a distant relative, the strange actor Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) who wants to kill them off to inherit their parents fortune. However the siblings quickly realise what Olaf is up to & must stay alert to outwit him & his attempts on their life as they search for the truth behind their parents death...This American German co-production was directed by Brad Silberling & is an entertaining enough Tim Burton/Grim Brother's dark fairytale type fantasy but I must admit it left me a bit unsatisfied. The script by Robert Gordon was based on the series of popular children's books Daniel Handler, in particular the first three The Bad Beginning, The Reptile Room & The Wide Window were used as the basis for the film, straight off the bat one has to say it's a children's film first & foremost although it's one of those children films which will probably appeal to adults as well. It's quite a grim film on occasion, it has some wonderfully spooky & dark production design & the narrator Lemony Snicket keeps telling us of horrible & terrible things that will happen but (disappointingly) it never goes too far. It certainly moves along at a nice pace, it's never boring but it never really excited me that much, it never really grabbed me, it never really got piqued my interest & it never really pulled me into the dark fantasy world that it creates. I didn't think it funny at all, again maybe because I'm an adult but I didn't laugh once. The character's are good enough, Count Olaf obviously stands out as the villain as he disguises himself as several different people to con his way to a fortune, Aunt Josephine is also memorable for her bizarre irrational fears although it's never quite explained who the narrator Lemony Snicket is.Director Silberling does a fine job & shoots the film with lots of neat little visual touches & lots of style, he is obviously helped by some truly wonderful production design from the sets, costumes & props. The designers have gone to town & the film looks great, from foggy beach's with picket fences, Count Olaf's gloomy rundown mansion that looks like something from The Addams Family, Dr. Montgomery's huge reptile sanctuary, Aunt Josephine's impossible house suspended over the edge of a sheer cliff by beams of wood, the speeding train & Count Olaf's sinister hearse looking car to a darkly atmospheric cave & lake. Most of the CGI computer effects are good although the deadly viper snake looks terrible. The violence is minimal so don't worry about that.With a supposed budget of about $140,000,000 this wasn't short of money was it? Most of the money seems to have been spent on a good cast & the sumptuous production design which is nothing short of amazing, unfortunately everything else is somewhat harder to find including a satisfying story. Shot entirely within studios the film also features a dummy start where a film called The Little Elf supposedly begins before Lemony interrupts & starts his own story. The acting is good, Carrey was born for roles like this, Meryl Streep is good & Scottish comedian Billy Connolly has a small role.Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a good solid & entertaining children's darkly grim fantasy which serves it's purpose well enough, certainly no classic in my opinion but it's definitely worth a watch all the same & it should keep both young & old alike quiet for 100 odd minutes if nothing else.

If someone had blinded me and took me to a preview of this movie and told me it was a Tim Burton movie I would have believed it. Still, in the end I would have left the theater with a bitter taste in my mouth. I mean the story is good, thanks to Lemony Snicket's (Daniel Handler) books, the sets are great, Jim Carrey is more calm than usual (thank god!)and Meryl Streep is wonderful as always. But still something would still be missing. The first thing I would notice would be the music. Far from Tim Burton's long time collaborator Danny Elfman, Thomas Newman in this case delivers a straightforward score with nothing to be remembered by. And you look at Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood, The Nightmare Before Christmas or the incredible Big Fish you start to see the difference. After all Brad Silberling is the same man who gave us the poor Casper and the remake of the Wim Wenders classic Wings of Desire called City of Angels, that was once again a watchable movie but far from Wender's genius. Still it's a good enough movie for the holyday season so... have fun.

OK...I really enjoyed the film and I felt it captured everything I wanted it to about the books and more. However, and while it may be an odd thing to say, is that was the best set of credits I've ever seen.They were beautifully done, well done to whoever it was that created them...the artwork was spectacular and the animation perfectly in tune with the tone of the books.very entertaining...well done!In addition I would like to add than Jim Carrey fitted the role of Count Olaf perfectly, and while I may not be a huge fan of his previous work he provided the much needed humour to keep the story moving the watcher intrigued

The Baudelaire children lead a cushy life of reading books, inventing, and biting. One day at the beach Mr. Poe (Timothy Spall) informs them of the unfortunate event of their house and parents burning down. They have been shuffled around to various unrelated relatives. At every turn, they are perused by their uncle Count Olaf (Jim Carrey,) who covets their inheritance. Trying to explain this to grownups is almost impossible.Grate narration of the movie by Jude Law; he added a dimension that made you want to see what was happening next.The books offer such great (terrible) resources for the movie. However, it was a bit much trying to cram three books into one movie. Each book has more than enough storyline for a movie. The events were taken out of order which watered down the pathos and everyone could tell this even if they did not read the books. The details are there but we miss the purpose and the lessons.They chose just the right actors to play the Baudelaire brats, Violet, Klaus, and baby Sunny (Emily Browning, Liam Aiken, Kara, and Shelby Hoffman.) They did a great job of depicting the book characters. The addition of the underscore for Sunny was a notice touch.The only real negative part of the movie was using Jim Carry in the place of Count Olaf. He was too exaggerated even for Jim Carry and distracted from the spookiness of the story. What should have been spooky but see though the person turned out to be too clownish?They picked an excellent Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly) born and brought up in Glasgow, Scotland, looks and sounds like a cross between John Cleese and Sean Connery.During the ending credits, some great drawings make you think that this would have made a great cartoon series.

My Take: Jim Carrey at his outrageous self. An superb adaptation of the Snicket chronicles. I honestly say that I have always liked Jim Carrey's comedy movies, and he's also one of my favorite comedians (though I'm not much of a comedy fan). "Liar Liar" and "Bruce Almighty" were amongst my favorites of Carrey's wild antics. But when I viewed this film, I was surprised to see Jim Carrey in a whole new look. His performance here was of the villainous Count Olaf, and he was more than just making me laugh, but also a villainous character. He's really a villain here, but yet, you can't help but actually laugh at some of his antics. This is really he's best performance that I've seen. Surely, there would be more, but this is by far the best that I've seen (Though I haven't seen "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless mind"). Do I need to say that this movie was great? For I already see that many agree with me on that. A very colorful production, with excellent costume design, make-up and special effects, and yet, also a wonderful story, well pressed from Lemony Snicket's "unfortunate" account on the Baudelaire siblings. I wouldn't mind a franchise myself. There are still a few other books still left, so why not? Rating: **** out of 5.

All the stops have been pulled out on this playfully sinister adaptation of the best-selling trilogy which plainly owes plenty to Roald Dahl with snazzy design and the casting of 'A' listers Meryl Streep and Dustin Hoffman.Despite being based on a book it uses cinematic devises like Pirandellian author Jude Law commenting on the action and subtitles translating the gurgles of a cute little toddler given to such improbably precocious observations as "I'll handle this!", "You can't be buying this!" and "What a schmuck!"Jim Carrey emerging from a crumbling pile straight out of 'Gormenghast' gives a performance that makes his earlier turn as Beetlejuice look almost subdued; an impression reinforced by the presence of Catherine O'Hara.

Another gimmick film from the Hollywood corn syrup and french fry factory. Any idea or concept that made the books good was voted out of the film by the committee meeting clones who oversee movie production. All we are left with is swooping camera work to fool us into thinking action is happening, lots of elaborate art design to make us think that money equals quality and crude humor to make us think that the film is "cutting edge".Feh.Jim Carrey, to his credit, takes his character to an extreme but is not countered by the child actors who are very bland. In their defense, they are not given much to do or are directed very well. The baby is actually the best of the trio but I tired of the stupid crude subtitles after the third one. Meryl Streep walks through her part. Cedric the Entertainer could have been replaced by the studio janitor for all he given to do. Why is Dustin Hoffman here? The "exciting" finale is so misdone, it's probably the most boring part of the film.The most applause should be reserved for the uncredited animation team who created the great end credits. This sequence evokes the books better then anything in the film. I would bet take this was originally intended for the opening of the film but someone realized that the audience would be ready to kill when they saw how the live action was going after the promise of the animation. A much better film in a similar vein is "Matilda".

It was wonderful. I'm sorry, skeptics, but it really was.The costumes were really unique. I liked how they seemed to draw inspiration from several different time periods.I really loved Liam Aiken and Emily Browning as Klaus and Violet Baudelaire- even though they didn't fit my mental images of the characters, they proved themselves over and over again throughout the course of the film. Emily Browning has a history of doing excellent films, and after seeing her in the comparatively small role of Ned Kelly's sister I had a lot of faith in her. I wasn't quite as sure about Liam Aiken because I hadn't seen any of his work, but I was pleasantly surprised.Sunny Baudelaire (as played by Kara and Shelby Hoffman) was just done perfectly. Everybody in the cinema laughed at the subtitles. I seriously didn't think that it was possible for two-year-olds to be good at acting, but the Hoffman twins convinced me otherwise.The musical score was brilliantly done and the sets were, in a word, epic. I felt *dizzy* whenever there were panoramic shots of Lake Lachrymose, for heaven's sakes! There were some scenes which were not in the books- such as the theme of sanctuary, the spyglasses, the lost letter from the Baudelaire parents. As a Lemony Snicket obsessive I expected to fume at these scenes, but they worked wonderfully.Keep an eye out for the hilarious 'Littlest Elf' sequence at the beginning and the amazing animated credits (complete with a song from the film 'The Addams Family', possibly a nod to Barry Sonnenfield, who is credited as a producer).I am giving this film a 9 out of 10 simply because I am a fan of the books and there were a couple of story details I felt could have been communicated better.Excellent stuff! If there are any sequels, they can only improve.

Visually flawless, with a great cast and direction. So it can be described Lemony Snicket, which debuts in theaters as an alternative to other series for young people, like Harry Potter. Brad Silberling is who is ahead of this adaptation of the books by Lemony Snicket (Daniel Handler heteronym) and illustrated by Brett Helquist. Lemony Snicket is a collection composed of thirteen books and narrate the adventures of the Baudelaire siblings after the death of his parents in a fire. Handler looking for a publisher for his first novel entitled "The Basic Eight". One of the publishers do not accept the novel but wanted him to write a children's book. While not enjoying it at first, Handler has modified a manuscript he had written for adults, who possessed a more gothic tone and sarcastic, and ended up making it into a "Gothic novel about children growing up in dire situations," a concept that appealed to editors .By the amount of books published and the potential of each of the stories before his audience, probably the best solution for this series in film was filming the 13 episodes on 3 separate stories for film, released once a year. Thus the three stories of each film could be better developed and still leave in anticipation for the next adventure in the subsequent films. The script was provided by Robert Gordon, who had previously scripted MIB - Men in Black II in 2002. Just not sure of the production of other stories, Gordon chose to synthesize the various books and had its script based on the first three books in the series, with some modifications. The books are: "The Bad Beginning", "The Reptile Room" and "The Lake of Leeches." In addition, he had to leave the plot with a beginning, middle and end, but still leaving some hooks for possible future sequences. Gordon has structured his script exactly like the books, the adventures of brothers separated by chapters, and in each one of them would be in the house of each one of the tutors, and only then perform the connecting links in the climax, which would solve the doubts that arise about the unexplained death of his parents.The script tells the story of Klaus (Liam Aiken), Violet (Emily Browning) and Sunny (Kara Hoffman / Shelby Hoffman), who are three brothers who were at Briny Beach suddenly receive the news that his parents died in a fire. How are minors, they can not even inherit the fortune of her parents, which only occurs when Violet, the oldest, turns 18. The trio then goes to live with Count Olaf (Jim Carrey), a distant relative rather greedy, they want to take the children's fortune for himself. But before Count Olaf put his main plan into action, children sometimes change tutor, and taken by Mr. Poe (Timothy Spall), come to the house of Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly), a breeder of reptiles, and the Aunt Josephine (Meryl Streep), full of fears and loves grammar. But to achieve its goal, Olaf not measure consequences.Daniel Handler has created a story with anachronistic ambiance, and full of literary allusions and cultural. The setting seems to have much stylistic similarities with the nineteenth century as in the 1930s, but with contemporary scientific knowledge, and apparently anachronistic. These differences are best explained in the following volumes of books in the series. Even as a book for children, many details will be understood only by adults. Many of the names of characters, for example, allude to other fictional works or real people with macabre connections. In literary references, The Briny Beach is a reference to Lewis Carroll's poem, "The Walrus and the Carpenter". Important to note that the adaptation of Robert Gordon is very faithful to its original, but by modifying some detail, making a connection histories were apparent. For example, the plot begins with the story of "The Bad Beginning", go to "The Reptile Room" and "The Lake of Leeches", and ends with the climax of the first book. Virtually all the passages of the books are present, but some of the books changes were felt in the film as the lack of glasses Klaus and constant coughing of Mr. Poe.For those who are watching the movie and do not know who is its director, might well think that this is a work of Tim Burton. But is Brad Silberling (Casper (1995), City of Angels (1999) and Moonlight Mile (2002)) who runs with great competence. The look of the film is breathtaking. The photography Emmanuel Lubezki transports us directly to the dark and gothic visual scenarios portrayed. The indoor FAEM always use dark tones, dirty, with good use of shadows and natural light. Production designer Rick Heinrichs and set decorator Cheryl Carasik perform an exquisite work. From the street facades of the tutors, even the interiors are masterfully reproduced. The large interior of the house of Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) is grim, dirty, old, disgusting, matching well with its owner. Early on we see the contrast of the house of the sinister Count Olaf hiring with the "normal" house quiet and Justice Strauss (Catherine O'Hara), her neighbor. The home of Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly) with his Reptile Room, showing him all the fascination for these animals. The Aunt Josephine (Meryl Streep) is breathtaking. The structure of the house located on the edge of Lake Lachrymose, its well detailed interior that reflects the eccentricity of Josephine and her love of grammar as a huge library, besides the huge window overlooking the lake. There is also the scene of the train tracks. A curious fact is that in spite of this scene of the film seem to pass in the 30s, Count Olaf's car has electronic locks.The production, with a high cost of $ 140 million, much of that amount is applied in efficient visual effects. We have some scenes very well done. We have a scene of danger almost trampling on a rail, some involving frogs and snakes, a scenario burned (especially the final scenes when the brothers enter the house and the image they had of it will be deconstructed until it is shown all burnt) , and scenes involving leeches, and especially the spectacular scene of destruction objects and own Aunt Josephine. Effects are very realistic that make up the main and most complex scene involving effects on long. In this particular scene, the junction of the effects, with photography and art direction are an example of working together.The period costumes by Colleen Atwood also made matching the visual scenarios and characters. We can not also forget the makeup work Oscar winner. Valli O'Reilly and Bill Corso perform perfect characterizations to the protagonists, and especially the villain. To get an idea, the makeup worn by Jim Carrey in this movie took 3 hours to be prepared. Already Thomas Newman, composer responsible for The Green Mile (1999) and Angels in America (2003), composes a flawless track that mixes moments of adventure, action, mystery and drama. The end of the film is to hold back the tears at the scene of reading a letter.The cast does a commendable job. The children are all at a high level of interpretation. Liam Aiken is Klaus, who is 12 years old, a lover of books and uses his knowledge to find ways to escape from Count Olaf. The beautiful and stunning Emily Browning is flawless. Looking like a doll-sized. Besides filling our eyes, the actress plays with great naturalness and shows enormous talent.Violet is 14 years old and is the oldest of the brothers. It is a great inventor and when you have an idea holds your hair not to disturb his concentration. Until the baby Sunny, played by sisters Kara Hoffman and Shelby Hoffman, does well. The baby is beautiful, charismatic and gets lots of laughs from the audience to give life to the girl who has an incredible ability to bite and a vocabulary somewhat understandable that the public is always subtitled. Besides the players, we have Jim Carrey, who despite being a bit exaggerated, since the books Count Olaf is much more dangerous than comic. Yet the characteristics of Conde are well built mainly by makeup. Some visual details were accented, as amended eyebrows, the eye-shaped tattoo and thinness of the character.There are even Meryl Streep, with a fun interpretation of paranoid Aunt Josephine, and special participation of other names such as Jude Law, who lends his voice and interpretation in the shadows to Lemony Snicket, Catherine O'Hara as Justice Strauss Billy Connolly as the Uncle Monty, Timothy Spall as the guardian of the rights of children, Jennifer Coolidge as the woman pale face and, of course, Dustin Hoffman as the critical present in the play staged by Count Olaf in the final film.Brad Silberling and Robert Gordon managed to capture well the sense of humor that is in the books and even increased the gloomy weather not so common for readers age that books are targeted. The mixture of the somber mood with humor is the great secret of production. The script is smart in a compilation of ideas, while making it clear that life is not so simple for children, highlights the importance of abstract virtues increasingly relegated to oblivion, like innocence, imagination, family unity , love and good will always triumph in the end.

Violet (Emily Browning), Klaus (Liam Aiken) and Sunny Baudelaire (Kara Hoffman) are three clever and reasonably attractive orphans. Violet loves to invent. Klaus loves to read. Sunny enjoys to bite. When their parents die in a fire, they are left an enormous fortune that can't be used until Violet comes of age. They are sent to live with greedy distant relative Count Olaf (Jim Carrey) who tries to steal the fortune for himself. Next they're given to live with Uncle Monty (Billy Connolly) and his snakes. When Olaf kills Monty, they're given to fearful Aunt Josephine (Meryl Streep) next.This has a great look. It has a grim beauty. Even with the makeup, there is no denying that it's pure Jim Carrey. He's really mugging for the camera. It's interesting for a few minutes but it wears terribly thin. There's a little bit of hitting. There's a bit of attempted child killing. He needs to be more concerned about being a villain rather than being a comedian. No adults ever listen to the kids which gets very repetitive and tiresome. In fact, the whole structure of the movie is quite repetitive. All the adults are brain-dead. It's forced to keep stopping after every death. The other characters don't have enough time to develop chemistry. Then the movie goes into child bride territory. It's weird without being quirky and definitely not funny.

Jim Carrey is brilliantly evil, cunning, overdramatic, and insane as Count Olaf, whose constantly scheming to steal the orphan Baudelaire children's family fortune. Perfect casting for this role, he really showcases his comedic timing and comedic - with a side of dramatic - acting range. The main trio of kid characters are well casted, nailing the look and acting the part. This film version covers the first three books in Lemony Snicket's series, consolidating them into a neatly summarized story and plot. The production design is incredible, capturing the gloomy despair and gothic feel, super Tim Burton-esque without even being directed by him lol. The sharp, kinetic cinematography is a shiny standout for this film, really elevating the quality of the scenes and mise en scène. Such a huge shame that a sequel with the same cast had never materialized, so much potential down the drain. A great dark comedy drama that is NOT A KID-FRIENDLY film regardless of what naysayers state.