A remake of John Carpenter's superior film of the same title from 1976, Assault on Precinct 13 concerns a siege on a largely abandoned police station, which is related to the presence of a notorious criminal, Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne). It's left up to a ragtag group of police employees and criminals to defend themselves.I should start by noting that I absolutely love Carpenter's original film. In my view it is one of his best, perfectly capturing the suburban desolation of 1970s Los Angeles, and exquisitely suspenseful and horrifying, even though it's not really a horror film. Despite that, when this remake of Assault on Precinct 13 began, I had high hopes for it. The first scene is well directed, well shot, with excellent dialogue. It turns into an intense action scene at just the right moment, and results in some realistic, gritty deaths. The opening is as good as anything in the Carpenter film.Unfortunately, Assault on Precinct 13's excellence ended right there. It's not exactly a bad film--I enjoyed it more often than not, but it does have more than its share of flaws. In the end, my rating average out to a 7 out of 10. Recommendable, but with reservations.The first problem is that director Jean-Francois Richet tries to do too much--too much backstory, too many characters, too many over-the-top characters, too many quick cuts, too much shaky hand-held camera work, too many "big action moves", too many explosions, too many settings, and it's too dark. That the film is often so quickly edited and dark makes it too often difficult to see what's going on in the action scenes. Carpenter's film succeeded by being very taut, economical, sober and logical in its directorial style. Richet tries to one-up the original by forgoing all of those qualities. By the second or third scene, I was fairly confused. Superfluous characters were popping in and out, people were mumbling dialogue, and there was a whole complex backstory being hinted at and not spelled out very well.The brutal shooting near the beginning of the original film, which sets off the whole sequence of events, was dropped--that thread was completely removed from the film. It was lamentable in that this new Assault loses much of the simple, sensible drive the thread provided, and it was surely a decision based on political correctness. Likewise, Bishop is not allowed to be a clear-cut bad guy here. That saps some of the effectiveness out of his cooperation. In this film, he might be mostly tough talk. The other criminals in the film are either left largely unexplained or guilty of only petty or consensual crimes. I find this kind of political correctness in films reprehensible, although I realize it's primarily a studio decision.On the positive side, the villains here were cleverly conceived, and their nature makes them much more menacing physically. On the negative side, however, Richet lost the Night of the Living Dead (1968) zombie-like nature of the marauders, which saps suspense from the attacks. The logistics of the defense of the police station and details of their dilemma are not very clearly scripted or staged, either, which doesn't help. Another flaw is that some intruders seem to inexplicably hesitate. Another positive, though, is that Richet's film brings back a few small details, such as the capture of the criminal at the beginning of the film, and a substance addiction in one of the heroes leading to a character transformation, found in Rio Bravo (1959), the film that in conjunction with Night of the Living Dead, was the main inspiration for Carpenter's original film.Also on the positive side, this Assault has a skilled (and much more well known) cast. Even though Richter occasionally directed them to be a bit too over-the-top, the performances hit many very interesting notes. And a few of the additions to the original film, such as a Mexican standoff and a couple later scenes outside the police station were excellent. The increased firepower here may also be to some viewer's liking.A viewer less fond of the original, or even unfamiliar with the original, may like Assault better than I did. I may have even liked it better if the original were not so fresh in my memory (I just watched it again it recently--a review is forthcoming). There are enough redeeming aspects for action fans to make it worth at least a rental or a viewing on cable, but approach the film with lowered expectations.

The picture deals with an assassin (Laurence Fishburne) along with a group of delinquents (J.A Rule , John Leguizamo) are led to prison by security policemen (Kim Coates and Dorian Harewood) and during a snowstorm find shelter in a sleepy police station and almost locked out due to demolition . Precinct is commanded by a sergeant (Ethan Hawke) and there are an old police (Brian Dennehy) , a secretary (Drea De Matteo) and a psychologist (Maria Bello). Police station in ghetto district 13 is suddenly under siege and itself surrounded by violent gangmen heavily super-armed with technological weapons and helicopter . The opponents attackers sworn revenge about the murderer now inside the precinct 13 . Film captures the special excitement or mood of paranoia that those under siege live for the night . Psychosis abounds when the policeman and prisoners are attacked from all sides and can see no way out making desperate tryings to flee . Film has maximum tension , noisy action , emotion and thriller from the subsequents attempts by the violent stalkers to enter in the station and the besieged to survive or getaway for prevention of the seemingly inevitable final . From the initiation of the movie to the end action-packed and suspense is unstopped . A very exciting storyline by James De Monaco though much-copied and superb casting make this one of the best thrillers made in that year . The picture is an adaptation of the semi-acclaimed John Carpenter film with the same title what also was a rendition of Howard Hawks's ¨Rio Bravo¨ and the remakes the ¨Dorado¨ and ¨Rio Lobo¨ ,that were developed in a besieged jail defended by a tough John Wayne and helped by a misfit bunch . Flick will appeal to action movies lovers . Rating : Above average.

This is a remake of a remake and yet still packs a punch. I've seen the original "Rio Bravo" several times, including when it first came out. It was masterfully done and was one of the Duke's best movies from the 1950's. I saw John Carpenter's "Assault on Precinct 13" when it first came out in 1976 and remember it as being one of Carpenter's best movies. Now we have another version with basically the same characters including the drunk, originally played by Dean Martin, who is tested by the struggle for survival and eventually passes with flying colors. When I first heard the Christmas music in the movie, it took me a moment to grasp the reason for the Dean Martin selection until I realized it was the producer's way of paying homage to the crooner's performance in "Rio Bravo." This would be more entertaining for those who have not seen the originals. This remake follows the originals to the point of spoiling some of the surprises intended. I won't go into detail on this since it would then spoil the surprises for those who have not seen the originals. The story is there; the action is there; and the entertainment is there, especially for those who are seeing it for the first time.

Now, before you criticize me, I have never seen the original John Carpenter version of this film. Being a huge fan, I really should see it, and after seeing this remake, I will definitely track down the original to see if it is as good as this film. I had a blast! New Years in Detroit, a cold winter's morning as Precinct 13 prepares to close it's doors and move to a new building. There are only three people in the building on New Year's Eve, and as a storm draws closer, a criminal being transported to a maximum security center is re-routed to the deserted precinct. Only, there are some other people that would like to get closer to the villain.Very exciting story and excellent acting by both Ethan Hawke and Laurence Fishbourne take this action over the edge. Some people may find the film ultra violent, but violence on the big screen never bothered me, so I enjoyed it quite a lot! Definitely worth a look for action fans, and fans of the original who are curious. However, those that are disturbed by violent images, would like to steer clear of this film.

On a snowy New Year's Eve, a police station where a bus full of convicts has been jailed comes under attack from corrupt policemen, forcing a police sergeant with a cloudy past (Ethan Hawke) to team with a ruthless mob boss (Lawrence Fishburne) to try to keep them at bay.The original was a pretty good film so I'm still confused about the need to remake it. Yes, it was a little outdated but the film still worked fine. I was expecting the remake to be really bad since the trailer looked lackluster and Ethan Hawke isn't that good of an actor. However, this update turned out to be a decent film. It doesn't approach the original in quality but at least it doesn't insult the original either. They do change some things from the original though that didn't really bother me. Actually, it's kind of better that they tried it in a different way instead of doing it exactly the same (paging Psycho) and there was more reason to remake it.The performances were okay, nothing special. Ethan Hawke was okay as Roenick. He would sometimes go over the top and he was a little weak at some points. Laurence Fishburne was better than Ethan but still only average. Ja Rule actually gives a good performance for a rapper though he doesn't get a lot of screen time. John Leguizamo was okay, kind of dull. Maria Bello gave the best performance out of everyone and she is a pretty underrated actress. Gabriel Byrne was just meh while Drea de Matteo was clearly there for eye candy and nothing more.Jean-François Richet does a decent job at directing and he manages to create some suspense. However, he does keep the film simple and most of the twists are obvious. The script is generic and weak with a lot of clichés and little in the way of originality. The action sequences are slick and enjoyable but they are also kind of sparse. The movie also becomes dull from time to time even though the film isn't really that long. There is also little character development so it's hard to feel sorry for some of these people. The remake is really just a semi-enjoyable, generic action film. It fails to surpass the original in most categories but it still stands as a decent film. In the end, Assault on Precinct 13 is a decent action film and it's worth checking out. Rating 6/10

When they first announced there was a remake of John Carpenter's "Assault on Precinct 13" in progress, my immediate reactions were a little something like: "What?...Why?... This is blasphemy! ... This movie doesn't need to be remade!... etc etc" John Carpenter's original definitely was a revolutionary cult film. It was shocking, disturbing and politically incorrect and they simply can't make movies like that anymore nowadays, no matter how cliché that sounds. Therefore it was impossible for this remake by Jean-François Richet (never heard of him) to improve over the 1976-version. The good news, however, is that Richet never really tries to steal Carpenter's thunder and he surely delivered the best possible movie he could. Assault '05 is an A-budgeted movie that often has the charm of a B-movie and hangs together by adorable clichés, stereotypes and very explicit violence. On new years eve 2004, moments before the transfer towards a brand new police precinct, the old and abandoned precinct 13 is besieged by a gang of heavily armed and well-trained police officers. The reason? Top-gangster Marion Bishop, who was arrested earlier that night, has too much knowledge regarding the corrupt cop Marcus Duvall and his unit. In order to save their own careers, they have to eliminate Bishop before dawn, but also the innocent cops and random people who're in the precinct, because they know too much too now. The film offers quite a lot of suspense, good acting performances (by an impressive cast) and hard-boiled action. The setting (Chicago during a severe blizzard) adds to the tension. John Carpenter's original (which was, in fact, already a sort of remake of "Rio Bravo") will always remain one of the coolest, groundbreaking action movies ever (if it were only for that brutal and hugely controversial ice cream-truck sequence alone), but this film is a neat tribute.

Jean Richet's remake of the Carpenter thriller Assault on Precinct 13 is surprisingly entertaining. Assault on Precinct 13 (2005) loses the Carpenteresque weirdness and soundtrack, and tells the story of a remote, run-down police precinct under assault using more conventional cinematography and production. This is an achievement, but not because of the difficulty of following in the footsteps of Carpenter - because the film entertains without doing so, and because the narrative - just like all of Carpenter's films- manages to keep going without regard for the improbability of the plot. In other words, the Director kept a straight face and made the film entertaining enough to allow for a certain amount of suspended disbelief.Strong, fast, characterization - part of the legacy of Carpenter's film - makes a big difference early on. The cast is uniformly excellent and the main characters - unusual for this genre - are all unique, believable and consistent. Fishburn plays a big bad guy incarcerated by fiat in the small, run-down Precinct 13. Hawke is the Sergeant in charge of the precinct - a man with psychological and drug problems associated with a traumatic event which opens the film. These two improbable allies must pool their resources to defend the precinct against... who? The film is first and foremost an action film. The action is typical for the genre as of 2005 - i.e. - much of what takes place is only believable because of its entertainment value and internal consistently. Suspense is well constructed throughout the film, and the pace of the film reaches a frenetic level about 1/3rd of the way through, never letting up. The cinematography is surprisingly dissimilar to the original. Richet's film is more of a standard suspense thriller than anything bearing Carpenter's signature.Recommended for its entertainment value, solid cast, and well-constructed (though somewhat ridiculous) plot.

I haven't seen Carpenter's original version but the remake seems like a very solid modern action crime/thriller with an interesting cast. Ethan Hawke may never be recognized as a great young actor by the vast majority of moviegoers but in my opinion he hasn't made a serious flop in his career so far.The rest of the cast did equally well if not better at times. A special praise goes to Laurence Fishburne who gave the best performance in the movie.Overall the film has enough to offer to be considered worthy of a second view but it still lacks a few factors that could boost it further from the mass of similar movies. ...... 3/5 ......

The story has appeared many times over the decades in increasingly violent and less stylistic forms. John Wayne was in two, the more famous of which was "Rio Bravo" (1959). A seasoned veteran has to command a few loose cannons in order to fend off an invasion. John Carpenter made the stylish and violent "Assault on Precinct 13" (1976) before his landmark horror "Halloween" (1978). Now we've arrived at this 2005 remake.Directed by Jean-Francois Richet, Ethan Hawke is the pill-popping alcoholic Jake Roenick who must round up his troops on the last day at Precinct 13 on New Year's Eve in Detroit. When a group of prisoners, including Bishop (Laurence Fishburne, in Morpheus mode) make a stop-over at Precinct 13 because of a highway accident, thugs in ski masks lay siege to it trying to get Bishop. Thinking fast, Roenick gathers up everyone, including cops and prisoners, to fend off a vicious attack.This doesn't quite live up to its predecessors in a lot of ways. It lacks true suspense and often treads the line between cool and cliché way too often. A number of plot-twists are made too, but do little to lend any weight to satisfaction. No Oscar-worthy performers, though John Leguizamo does a nice turn as a hot-headed junkie.6/10

John Carpenter's original "Assault on Precinct 13" was a film that should have been left alone. This remake, directed by Jean Francois Richet, is not without its merits, but in the end, it leaves us wishing it was better.We are given the situation that four prisoners, one of them a powerful drug dealer, are being taken from a court building to a holding facility. Because of the bad weather, it's decided, at the last minute, to have these guys taken to the old Precinct 13, which is closing.What appears to be a simple job of locking up these bad guys, turn out to be one of the most violent situations seen in movies in 2005. At first, we are led to believe the black SUVs following the transport bus are people that are trying to free Marion Bishop, the powerful criminal that doesn't want to be in jail. We keep thinking it makes sense, until we realize, these people that are trying to storm the precinct, want Bishop, because he is a dangerous man who will testify in court against them. These people are higher ups in the Detroit's police department.The film is highly entertaining and will keep anyone involved following all what's being seen. The violence is too much to watch, at times. Ultimately, Roenick, the young police sergeant, emerges as the one that deals a heavy blow to the people that are trying to kill him.Ethan Hawke does good work with his take of Roenick. Equally effective, Laurence Fishburne, who plays the bad guy, Marion Bishop. Gabriel Byrne, Maria Bello, Brian Dennehy, John Leguizamo, Drea DeMatteo, and the rest of the cast make a valuable contribution to the success of the movie.Fans of this film genre will probably compare this remake against the original one, and while this one is not as satisfying, it will not bore anyone.

John Carpenter's 1976 original was a little cheesy and low-budget looking at times, but it was still a very well done film. It was short and to the point. Carpenter knew how to build psychological tension and his vision of a street gang attacking a police station was menacing. The original Precinct 13 also offered social commentary. It was made at a time when Americans were fleeing the inner city due to a proliferation of gang violence the police seemed powerless to control. The original Precinct 13 registered with the American public in much the same way as the Death Wish and Dirty Harry films.The trouble with the updated 2005 version is it has nothing to say. It's very much a generic Hollywood thriller/action flick. The big-name cast all turn in mediocre performances, trying their best to work with the mundane script and direction. The psychotic street gang has been replaced with crooked cops. The crooked cop aspect is supposed to be an unexpected plot "twist", but it's been done to death and elicited a bored *sigh* from me. Most of the original's psychological tension has been replaced with endless dialog that never seems to go anywhere. In the 1976 version the street gang is mostly seen as faceless shadows in the dark of night. They seem to kill purely for fun, almost like something out of a horror movie. We don't truly understand their motivations, which makes them far more frightening. The updated version gives us way too much information about the crooked cops and they become not nearly as threatening. Overall, there's a strong feeling of "seen that before" when watching the 2005 version. There's nothing special or unique going on. This isn't a terrible movie, but it doesn't offer any new ideas. It's a classic example of Hollywood playing it safe and winding up with a middle of the road film.

I did not think I was going to like this remake of the 1976 cult favorite. I was, however, pleasantly surprised. The movie was fun. The characters were likable. The action was well paced. The sets and backgrounds were excellent, giving the viewer a feeling of desolation and dread that the original movie had in abundance. I originally heard that Ethan Hawke's character was the same as his character in "Training Day", but I totally disagree. Oddly enough, both characters were named Jake. So, they were both young police officers named Jake who were going through a rough period, but Ethan Hawke played both differently. This is not a movie to bring your kids to; too much violence. This might be a good date movie, but not a first date movie. All in all, I give "Assault on Precinct 13" (2005) an A-. If you want to have fun, watch it. - JFLY

Sgt. Jake Roenick (Ethan Hawke) is on desk duty 8 months after a botch undercover operation kills his close fellow officer. It's New Year's Eve and he's in charge of Detroit's precinct 13 which is suppose to be closed after midnight. Crime lord/cop killer Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne) has just been captured and is being transported to jail. However a huge snow storm redirects the transport to precinct 13. This attracts a large group of gunmen, and the skeleton staff must fend them off with help from the prisoners.This is solid action thriller with good solid actors. The action is tight and economical. Ethan Hawke is able to create a compelling central character and a solid complex relationship with Fishburne. The constant snow storm creates its own atmosphere. It's a fun little action movie.

It's time for the old precinct to retire, the last night, after which it's not required, with Jake Roenick holding fort, there should be nothing to report, what could possibly go wrong, you might enquire - where do you begin! Certainly one of the worst remakes of all time, although why you would want to remake an untouchable original is beyond me. Gabriel Byrne is the biggest culprit in this pantomime, if you want a bad cop you need to at least come close to Gary Oldman's incarnation in Leon, which he doesn't by some distance. Add to that a plot that might have worked when cowboys (and girls) roamed the prairies but in a modern setting just leads to ridicule and mockery. All in all, thoroughly unentertaining.

Rating: ** 1/2 out of **** A lot of people will likely hate this movie by virtue of the fact that it's a remake. Being open-minded, I'm not offended by the thought of a beloved cult classic getting a Hollywood remake; it is, after all, quite interesting to see how the big-budget treatment affects the same premise. In this case, the result is not too shabby at all, certainly better than the ads would indicate, even if this is a remake that doesn't stand on its own nearly as well as Zack Snyder's Dawn of the Dead.Assault on Precinct 13 (referred to as AP13 from here on out) stars Ethan Hawke as cop Jake Roenick, a former undercover officer who's now strictly on desk duty after a horrible mishap that resulted in the deaths of two fellow officers. It's his last day (coincidentally also New Year's Eve) in Precinct 13, and he's simply overseeing the transfer along with another cop (Brian Dennehy) and a secretary (Drea de Matteo).Due to the snowy conditions, a prison bus transferring dangerous cop-killer Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne) is forced to take refuge in Precinct 13. But it becomes clear soon enough that there are a large number of corrupt cops surrounding the precinct, determined to kill Bishop and every possible witness inside. Faced with no other options, Roenick frees and arms the prisoners, using whatever means necessary to battle against the far more numerous and better armed enemy.John Carpenter's 1976 cult hit was a fairly effective thriller, maintaining an atmospheric claustrophobia that balanced nicely with the well-choreographed shootouts. Though there are many differences between these versions, both plot-wise and stylistically, this remake essentially opts for the same brand of edge-of-the-seat excitement, but as is par for this generation's offerings, the action sequences are pumped up with a lot more firepower and a lot less plausibility.As silly as Carpenter's film may have seemed to the discriminating viewer, it was a smartly plotted thriller with only a few minor holes. This remake, on the other hand, is riddled with all sorts of logical inconsistencies. The most obvious one? In less than a day, the head of the corrupt team of cops (played by Gabriel Byrne) is somehow able to assemble his men on very short notice and arm them with top-notch weaponry that must have been hell to sign out from the armory (he even calls in a chopper at one point). And as the body count significantly rises, one has to wonder how he plans to cover up the massive blood shed (blaming it on Bishop's men doesn't quite explain how his own men were killed or what they were doing at the precinct).The body count is almost bafflingly low considering the numbers mentioned (Byrne says he's got 33 men, hard to believe corruption could spread to every one of them); I could swear fewer characters were killed than were even involved in the entire film. Other problems include a scene where Byrne chooses to execute a survivor rather than use this person as a bargaining chip, and as the number of survivors within the station dwindles down, one character conveniently remembers an escape route just as the building's about to be invaded. The climax, a disappointingly rote cat-and-mouse chase, is set in a forest apparently right by the station, but I could have sworn an overhead shot established the precinct in an entirely urban section of Detroit. Along with the sagging pace in the second half, predictability also hampers the suspense, it's too easy to figure out who's going to die and in what order. The identity of the traitor is also another easy guess, considering the very tiny list of suspects still around by that point. For all these nagging flaws, the film is still worth mildly recommending for one lengthy, high-octane action setpiece. The first major invasion of the precinct is a thrilling sequence, every bit the equal of the similar siege in the original, though louder and faster-paced. The action even boasts a little bit of strategy and some mild thought. Other action scenes are competently handled, but lack the claustrophobic edge of the shootouts set within the precinct.The cast is mostly first-rate, even Ethan Hawke, who usually does little more than coast by on his best Tom Cruise impersonation. Laurence Fishburne, channeling a darker version of Morpheus, does well with what little material he has to work with, and it's fun to see Brian Dennehy barking up a storm again. Of the two female leads, Maria Bello is the one with more "depth," but she's almost fatally annoying as the whiny psychologist. Drea de Matteo, on the other hand, is one of those rare women who somehow still looks sexy even when she's dressed as a hooker (or is she sexy because she's dressed that way?). Gabriel Byrne makes a solid impression despite the limited screen time, and Ja Rule and John Leguizamo are apparently only on hand to provide some truly lame comic relief and take equal turns participating in one very gruesome beating.AP13 came very close to getting a two-star rating from me, but in this day and age when action films need sci-fi, fantasy or horror elements to succeed, there's no denying this film is better than the usual lot churned from Hollywood. This remake is an earnest attempt in crafting an edge-of-the-seat thriller and even if it only gets halfway there, that's still better than most pure action movies these days.

Everybody knows that remakes are never much cop – very rarely do they improve on the often classic originals. ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 isn't better than the John Carpenter film from the '70s, but it IS a decent remake. This is because it updates and changes the original film in positive ways that make it different enough to be worth watching. That, and the fact that it's a very good little thriller in itself.The gang in the Carpenter movie was scary because it was random. There was no motive, just the fact that they were out to kill people for the fun of it. That's gone in this movie; the gang here has a definite motive that leads them into a life-or-death struggle for survival. There's a big twist which I won't reveal, but the fact that the gang are all armoured and possessing high-power weapons makes them even more of a threat than in the original movie. I loved it. Key scenes from the Carpenter movie are revisited, but turned around on their head to seem fresh and new.The worst thing about the film is probably the script, which relies far too heavily on profanity for effect. This is a big no-no, in my opinion, and reveals a dearth of imagination in James De Monaco's screenplay. Still, French director Jean-Francois Richet makes a decent fist of it, investing his film with plenty of suspense and tension, and the action scenes are all very well handled. I was frequently on the edge of my seat, and I haven't been able to say that about many recent action films from Hollywood. The only bit I didn't like was a bit ripped off from DIE HARD 2 where an icicle is used to dispatch a bad guy.ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 also benefits from an ensemble cast who make the best of what the script gives them. Ethan Hawke, who I never have liked – and still don't like much – works hard in the lead hero role. His work doesn't quite pay off and make him charismatic, but I think he does a good job, for what it's worth. Laurence Fishburne's still trading on his 'king of cool' image that he gained from THE MATRIX trilogy, so he doesn't have to do much work here, but he's one of the actors holding it all together. Gabriel Byrne is underused, as is Brian Dennehy, although it's nice to see the latter actor back on screen in a role reminiscent of his one from FIRST BLOD. Elsewhere we have John Leguizamo (CARLITO'S WAY) having fun as an on-the-edge addict, Maria Bello a little out of place, Ja Rule better than he was in HALF PAST DEAD, Kim Coates playing a jerk yet again, and Drea de Matteo as a lowlife. What's more to say?

I hate movies that have potential and fall on their proverbial faces, and this movie came very close to biting the dust. The writing was blasé, the acting was blasé (although Laurence Fishborne was by far the least offensive), the directing was horrid ... it just wasn't done real well. The action was fine but nothing stupendous. A solid "C" if there was one ... and I have to say Ethan Hawke and Drea de Matteo really bit it with their quasi-acting in this movie - although I will have to say that I'm not sold that it was all the actor's fault, as a great deal of the wasted effort was definitely in the writing.A solid rental. Not for box office.

A piece of solid action with a solid cast. The original (John Carpenter, 1976) I prefer, but the remake is good enough to kill some spare time, yet nothing really memorable.

A crappier remake to a cult classic.But if you like by the numbers predictable convoluted and mindless action, well, this is it.

First off, the "original" other film critics keep referring to is actually a remake, itself. John Carpenter's "Assault on Precinct 13" is really a remake of an older western entitled simply, "Rio Bravo." So while everyone keeps whining about remakes, let it be known that they have always remade older works. Always. At any rate, as far as remakes go, this one is a tad better than decent. Not surprisingly, it surpasses neither of the originals in atmosphere, content, and execution. However, it is still quite well put together and very enjoyable. Having been built around Carpenter's solid plot, there are some new innovations used as "industrial siding" all around the outer edges. While some elements were shaky, it had the solidity of Carpenter's previous work to stabilize it.I won't detail the plot as that has been done repeatedly here at IMDb, but suffice it to say that it remains fairly faithful to the source materials, without giving us a blow by blow carbon copy of either previous versions.Action fans will find this a delight, and those who are fans of police dramas will also find it interestingly entertaining. Those among the audience in my hometown theater were enthralled. We aren't a town of demonstrative people; there aren't many walk outs, and the occasions where there is applause are few and far between. There were instances of neither for this event.Carpenter fans, however, may be a bit affronted by this work.All in all, this was a fun cinematic experience with superb direction, amazing vision, and some great execution. Featured are some surprise "kills," peppered with predictable turns. It was unfortunate, in my opinion, that they chose to make create their "street gang" out of corrupt police officers. It did make me appreciate Carpenter's version all the more. I missed the now infamous "Ice Cream Scene." But it was still quite enjoyable."Without pause, without regard."It rates a 7/10 from...the Fiend :.

I will fess up now and admit that I have not seen either John Carpenter's original production of Assault On Precinct 13, nor Howard Hawks' Rio Bravo, upon which both are based. Carpenter himself has, in a manner of speaking, remade his Assault On Precinct 13 with Ghosts Of Mars, so there is a small basis for comparison. Where Ghosts Of Mars demonstrated that Carpenter knows how to film a tense and powerful film, this update of Assault On Precinct 13 is far from tense. Truth be told, it is so straightforward that observant viewers will pick all of the so-called plot twists a mile off. Fortunately, it has a good stock of saving graces that keep it from being a write-off. Given that this is the first English language film for Jean-François Richet, it shows a fair bit of promise. It also shows once again that European directors are capable of making an interesting film where American, Australian, or even British directors will not.The plot of both Assaults On Precinct 13, to a large extent Ghosts Of Mars, and I will assume Rio Bravo, are basically alike. It is in the details where these films showing two small forces that are polar opposites against a larger, better-organised opponent make their mark. In the case of Assault On Precinct 13 circa 2005, the film tries to distinguish itself by adding a lot of details where its predecessor reputedly kept things short, sharp, and to the point. The real question is whether it works. Sometimes it does, and does so well, but there are also a few times when it really does not. A good example of when the new Assault On Precinct 13 does not work is when Brian Dennehy, one of the few actors in this remake who is old enough to have been in the original (he was not - his asking price was probably too high at the time), conveniently announces he has found a way out of the precinct via the basement. This deus ex machina not only deflates the tension of the ending a lot, it retroactively deflates the tension of the rest of the film.On the positive side, director Jean-François Richet is not shy about showing the consequences of violent actions. On two occasions in the film, characters are shot in the head. The resulting shots with the camera zooming away from faces that have a massive hole in the upper middle are enough to burn the film permanently on your retina or memory. The problem there is that they also leave one wishing the rest of the film could have excelled like those shots. Ethan Hawke struck me as the worst possible choice for a lead in this project, but he portrays the main hero with such an excellent arc that it is easy to forgive the myriad of turkeys he has before appeared in, at least for a hundred and nine minutes. Lawrence Fishburne is just barely young enough to have not been suitable for the original Assault, but the renegade prime target for the new besiegers is a role he slips into so comfortably, you will think he was born to play it. Gabriel Byrne is somewhat weak in his role as the evil leader, but this can be blamed on his appalling lack of screen time. When he is given the chance to speak, he is very good at holding one's attention.I have tried to remain objective so far, but the choice of music in the end credits could not have been worse. To call one half of the end credit roll annoying is understating things. Thankfully, Graeme Revell does such an awesome job of countering this with a tight event-based score that it is almost enough to forgive him for involving himself with turkeys like Street Fighter. It is his music that makes the Mexican standoff scene a little over halfway through the film work. Another aspect that makes the film work is the cinematography. While there are rarely more than two heads in a frame, camera motion is used correctly for a change in order to increase the tension. The dolly focus shot a third of the way into the film puts one directly into Roenick's boots to a far greater extent than a thousand shaky-cam POV shots ever could. I do not think I will ever run out of ways to express how superior European directors are because of the general lack of shaky-cam in their work. The fact that no shot in the film is zoomed in too close to actually see how the focus of the shot is interacting with others also helps a lot. What we have here, therefore, is a competently-executed action film the likes of which we have not seen since the late 1980s.This is not enough to make Assault On Precinct 13 circa 2005 a classic, but it is enough for me to give it a seven out of ten. If the director manages to keep the same artistic sensibility he displayed on this film for the rest of his career, there is no telling how far he could go.

Assault on Precinct 13 is the absolute dumbest film I've seen since Charlie's Angels 2. The shame lies in the fact that they had a good cast and a good premise to work with. SPOILERS ............................................................. I know they've said this movie is a remake descendant of Rio Bravo but did the writers of this film actually watch Rio Bravo? Besides the fact that Rio Bravo is a western classic, the premise of the film was that the sheriff (John Wayne) had to keep a prisoner accused of murder from being liberated by his brother and his gang. No one wants to liberate anyone in Assault on Precinct 13. They want EVERYONE dead. So, my first question would have to be, WHY NOT JUST BURN THE WHOLE PLACE DOWN FROM THE START? Why "assault" the place at all? I know the contrived plot turn was suppose to be clever and shocking but it didn't make sense and/or was presented properly. If the veteran cop was in on it from the start, why the need for this whole movie? If the veteran cop suddenly cut a deal at the back door during the siege, how did he even get the chance? As soon as he appeared at the door he would've been shot and they would've had their entry point. It's all just FUBAR. What part of any city can an all out war take place at a police precinct (complete with helicopters and massive explosions) but no one notices?? However, as soon as there's a fire they have to "leave before the fire department shows up"?????? How did they plan to cover up the chaos that was happening outside?? Police issue bullets in the walls, bullet casings, footprints, equipment usage, and the fact that there were going to be no bodies of "Bishop's men" to be found? How about those police snipers? How could they possibly miss so badly so often? I like the fact that when the two detainees tried to run, the snipers were foiled by two tiny mounds of snow. As if it's not possible to shoot a high powered riffle through a pile of snow. The set up was interesting although ridiculous but the movie just went off a cliff when they decided to kill that particular character with a bullet to the head for absolutely NO REASON at all. I know the makers of the film were going for shock but all they got was disgust at the cruelty and the anger of the audience. Don't you think that part of the reason why this thing is bombing at the box office is the fact that word of mouth has everyone telling friends and family to stay away from this one? That particular scene has to be a big part of that word of mouth (that and the fact that every plot turn is dumber then dirt). The conclusion remains steadily stupid as the villain pauses to deliver an Austin Powers-like diatribe instead of killing the helpless people who he has finally captured. I know several people have mentioned the closing scenes that take place in the woods of Detroit city (>snicker<) but why did Ethan's character just wander off in to the woods in the first place? He doesn't even look to see if the SUV with the secretary and his friend gets away? They just cut to him prowling slowly in the woods, pistol in hand. GACK. I could go on but won't. All I can say is that you want to avoid this stupidity at all cost.

This well-made siege-thriller features plenty of action, excitement and some interesting characters but it's also incredibly tense. The tension is created by the predicament that a small group of staff in a police precinct face when they come under attack from a far more powerful and well-armed group of assailants who are intent on killing them. The fact that the besieged staff can't contact anyone to get any help and are led by a psychologically-damaged station sergeant only makes matters worse. Furthermore, when they have to make some uncomfortable alliances and start to incur casualties, things get even more edgy.New Year's Eve is a significant time for Detroit's Precinct 13 because it's due to be closed down at midnight and the only staff still on duty are the officer in charge, Sergeant Jake Roenick (Ethan Hawke), veteran cop Jasper O'Shea (Brian Dennehy) and their secretary Iris Ferry (Drea de Matteo). Most of the contents of the building have already been removed and Iris is busy packing the few items that still remain. Jake is an ex-undercover cop who, eight months earlier, was involved in an operation that went wrong and resulted in the deaths of two of his fellow officers. Since that time, he's been consumed with guilt, reliant on painkillers and booze and has been placed under the care of police psychiatrist Alex Sabian (Maria Bello).Outside, a powerful snowstorm is raging and as the road conditions deteriorate, the guards who are transporting a bus-load of criminals nearby, realise that they won't be able to reach their destination and so divert to Precinct 13, where their prisoners can be locked up for the night. On board are notorious crime boss and cop killer, Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne), counterfeit goods dealer, Smiley (Ja Rule), Anna (Aisha Hinds) who claims to be innocent of everything she's been charged with and drug addict Beck (John Leguizamo). All four are duly secured in their cells and then some vehicles and a heavily-armed group of men surround the building and demand that Bishop be released. Jake naturally assumes that these are Bishop's men and so refuses their request. When he discovers that they are, in fact, a group of corrupt cops who have had a long business association with Bishop, it becomes clear that the lives of everyone in the building are in danger and the violent exchanges that follow, prove to be a fight to the death.With the well-choreographed action taking place in the dark and things becoming increasingly claustrophobic for the besieged group, the movie's atmosphere becomes really threatening. Ethan Hawke does a good job of showing how significantly his character has changed since the events that had such a powerful effect on his psychological state and Laurence Fishburne makes a powerful impression as the ultra-cool Bishop. Drea de Matteo is amusing as the secretary with a reputation for bedding "bad boys" and the rest of the cast also bring something interesting to the portrayals of each of their characters.

Surprisingly quite liked it. I only rented this as a Friday night sort of romp, but actually quite enjoyed it. It kept me on the edge of my seat from start until finish. Never seen the original, but this was enjoyable enough that I'm happy not to have. There was far too much unnecessary swearing, and blood, but I guess in a film like this it would have looked strange without. The plot was a little thin, but that's fine too. Laurence Fishburne's performance was truly very chilling and fitted in perfectly with the general feel of the film. I was genuinely quite scared towards the end. As action films go I'd actually rather watch than Die Hard.

Potential spoilersif you've never seen a bad cop movie before.The guilt ridden hero cop abusing drugs and alcohol, dirty cops (ethically and physically), cops who dramatically rack the slides on their guns before they go of to do something (nobody keeps a loaded gun??), shooters with full automatic weapons who can't hit each other from 20 feet away, people who die instantly from non-lethal stab wounds, etc Hawke shows up in uniform with something on his face. What is it?? Five o'clock shadow? A goatee?? I spent more time trying to figure this out than paying attention to the movie. No self respecting police officer would show up in uniform like that or allow another to do so. He looks like some kid who walked in off the street.Stylishly shot and a great cast, but its failure to be anchored in something close to reality turns it into an unintentional spoof.

A remake of John Carpenter's superior film of the same title from 1976, Assault on Precinct 13 concerns a siege on a largely abandoned police station, which is related to the presence of a notorious criminal, Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne). It's left up to a ragtag group of police employees and criminals to defend themselves.I should start by noting that I absolutely love Carpenter's original film. In my view it is one of his best, perfectly capturing the suburban desolation of 1970s Los Angeles, and exquisitely suspenseful and horrifying, even though it's not really a horror film. Despite that, when this remake of Assault on Precinct 13 began, I had high hopes for it. The first scene is well directed, well shot, with excellent dialogue. It turns into an intense action scene at just the right moment, and results in some realistic, gritty deaths. The opening is as good as anything in the Carpenter film.Unfortunately, Assault on Precinct 13's excellence ended right there. It's not exactly a bad film--I enjoyed it more often than not, but it does have more than its share of flaws. In the end, my rating average out to a 7 out of 10. Recommendable, but with reservations.The first problem is that director Jean-Francois Richet tries to do too much--too much backstory, too many characters, too many over-the-top characters, too many quick cuts, too much shaky hand-held camera work, too many "big action moves", too many explosions, too many settings, and it's too dark. That the film is often so quickly edited and dark makes it too often difficult to see what's going on in the action scenes. Carpenter's film succeeded by being very taut, economical, sober and logical in its directorial style. Richet tries to one-up the original by forgoing all of those qualities. By the second or third scene, I was fairly confused. Superfluous characters were popping in and out, people were mumbling dialogue, and there was a whole complex backstory being hinted at and not spelled out very well.The brutal shooting near the beginning of the original film, which sets off the whole sequence of events, was dropped--that thread was completely removed from the film. It was lamentable in that this new Assault loses much of the simple, sensible drive the thread provided, and it was surely a decision based on political correctness. Likewise, Bishop is not allowed to be a clear-cut bad guy here. That saps some of the effectiveness out of his cooperation. In this film, he might be mostly tough talk. The other criminals in the film are either left largely unexplained or guilty of only petty or consensual crimes. I find this kind of political correctness in films reprehensible, although I realize it's primarily a studio decision.On the positive side, the villains here were cleverly conceived, and their nature makes them much more menacing physically. On the negative side, however, Richet lost the Night of the Living Dead (1968) zombie-like nature of the marauders, which saps suspense from the attacks. The logistics of the defense of the police station and details of their dilemma are not very clearly scripted or staged, either, which doesn't help. Another flaw is that some intruders seem to inexplicably hesitate. Another positive, though, is that Richet's film brings back a few small details, such as the capture of the criminal at the beginning of the film, and a substance addiction in one of the heroes leading to a character transformation, found in Rio Bravo (1959), the film that in conjunction with Night of the Living Dead, was the main inspiration for Carpenter's original film.Also on the positive side, this Assault has a skilled (and much more well known) cast. Even though Richter occasionally directed them to be a bit too over-the-top, the performances hit many very interesting notes. And a few of the additions to the original film, such as a Mexican standoff and a couple later scenes outside the police station were excellent. The increased firepower here may also be to some viewer's liking.A viewer less fond of the original, or even unfamiliar with the original, may like Assault better than I did. I may have even liked it better if the original were not so fresh in my memory (I just watched it again it recently--a review is forthcoming). There are enough redeeming aspects for action fans to make it worth at least a rental or a viewing on cable, but approach the film with lowered expectations.

The picture deals with an assassin (Laurence Fishburne) along with a group of delinquents (J.A Rule , John Leguizamo) are led to prison by security policemen (Kim Coates and Dorian Harewood) and during a snowstorm find shelter in a sleepy police station and almost locked out due to demolition . Precinct is commanded by a sergeant (Ethan Hawke) and there are an old police (Brian Dennehy) , a secretary (Drea De Matteo) and a psychologist (Maria Bello). Police station in ghetto district 13 is suddenly under siege and itself surrounded by violent gangmen heavily super-armed with technological weapons and helicopter . The opponents attackers sworn revenge about the murderer now inside the precinct 13 . Film captures the special excitement or mood of paranoia that those under siege live for the night . Psychosis abounds when the policeman and prisoners are attacked from all sides and can see no way out making desperate tryings to flee . Film has maximum tension , noisy action , emotion and thriller from the subsequents attempts by the violent stalkers to enter in the station and the besieged to survive or getaway for prevention of the seemingly inevitable final . From the initiation of the movie to the end action-packed and suspense is unstopped . A very exciting storyline by James De Monaco though much-copied and superb casting make this one of the best thrillers made in that year . The picture is an adaptation of the semi-acclaimed John Carpenter film with the same title what also was a rendition of Howard Hawks's ¨Rio Bravo¨ and the remakes the ¨Dorado¨ and ¨Rio Lobo¨ ,that were developed in a besieged jail defended by a tough John Wayne and helped by a misfit bunch . Flick will appeal to action movies lovers . Rating : Above average.

This is a remake of a remake and yet still packs a punch. I've seen the original "Rio Bravo" several times, including when it first came out. It was masterfully done and was one of the Duke's best movies from the 1950's. I saw John Carpenter's "Assault on Precinct 13" when it first came out in 1976 and remember it as being one of Carpenter's best movies. Now we have another version with basically the same characters including the drunk, originally played by Dean Martin, who is tested by the struggle for survival and eventually passes with flying colors. When I first heard the Christmas music in the movie, it took me a moment to grasp the reason for the Dean Martin selection until I realized it was the producer's way of paying homage to the crooner's performance in "Rio Bravo." This would be more entertaining for those who have not seen the originals. This remake follows the originals to the point of spoiling some of the surprises intended. I won't go into detail on this since it would then spoil the surprises for those who have not seen the originals. The story is there; the action is there; and the entertainment is there, especially for those who are seeing it for the first time.

Now, before you criticize me, I have never seen the original John Carpenter version of this film. Being a huge fan, I really should see it, and after seeing this remake, I will definitely track down the original to see if it is as good as this film. I had a blast! New Years in Detroit, a cold winter's morning as Precinct 13 prepares to close it's doors and move to a new building. There are only three people in the building on New Year's Eve, and as a storm draws closer, a criminal being transported to a maximum security center is re-routed to the deserted precinct. Only, there are some other people that would like to get closer to the villain.Very exciting story and excellent acting by both Ethan Hawke and Laurence Fishbourne take this action over the edge. Some people may find the film ultra violent, but violence on the big screen never bothered me, so I enjoyed it quite a lot! Definitely worth a look for action fans, and fans of the original who are curious. However, those that are disturbed by violent images, would like to steer clear of this film.

On a snowy New Year's Eve, a police station where a bus full of convicts has been jailed comes under attack from corrupt policemen, forcing a police sergeant with a cloudy past (Ethan Hawke) to team with a ruthless mob boss (Lawrence Fishburne) to try to keep them at bay.The original was a pretty good film so I'm still confused about the need to remake it. Yes, it was a little outdated but the film still worked fine. I was expecting the remake to be really bad since the trailer looked lackluster and Ethan Hawke isn't that good of an actor. However, this update turned out to be a decent film. It doesn't approach the original in quality but at least it doesn't insult the original either. They do change some things from the original though that didn't really bother me. Actually, it's kind of better that they tried it in a different way instead of doing it exactly the same (paging Psycho) and there was more reason to remake it.The performances were okay, nothing special. Ethan Hawke was okay as Roenick. He would sometimes go over the top and he was a little weak at some points. Laurence Fishburne was better than Ethan but still only average. Ja Rule actually gives a good performance for a rapper though he doesn't get a lot of screen time. John Leguizamo was okay, kind of dull. Maria Bello gave the best performance out of everyone and she is a pretty underrated actress. Gabriel Byrne was just meh while Drea de Matteo was clearly there for eye candy and nothing more.Jean-François Richet does a decent job at directing and he manages to create some suspense. However, he does keep the film simple and most of the twists are obvious. The script is generic and weak with a lot of clichés and little in the way of originality. The action sequences are slick and enjoyable but they are also kind of sparse. The movie also becomes dull from time to time even though the film isn't really that long. There is also little character development so it's hard to feel sorry for some of these people. The remake is really just a semi-enjoyable, generic action film. It fails to surpass the original in most categories but it still stands as a decent film. In the end, Assault on Precinct 13 is a decent action film and it's worth checking out. Rating 6/10

When they first announced there was a remake of John Carpenter's "Assault on Precinct 13" in progress, my immediate reactions were a little something like: "What?...Why?... This is blasphemy! ... This movie doesn't need to be remade!... etc etc" John Carpenter's original definitely was a revolutionary cult film. It was shocking, disturbing and politically incorrect and they simply can't make movies like that anymore nowadays, no matter how cliché that sounds. Therefore it was impossible for this remake by Jean-François Richet (never heard of him) to improve over the 1976-version. The good news, however, is that Richet never really tries to steal Carpenter's thunder and he surely delivered the best possible movie he could. Assault '05 is an A-budgeted movie that often has the charm of a B-movie and hangs together by adorable clichés, stereotypes and very explicit violence. On new years eve 2004, moments before the transfer towards a brand new police precinct, the old and abandoned precinct 13 is besieged by a gang of heavily armed and well-trained police officers. The reason? Top-gangster Marion Bishop, who was arrested earlier that night, has too much knowledge regarding the corrupt cop Marcus Duvall and his unit. In order to save their own careers, they have to eliminate Bishop before dawn, but also the innocent cops and random people who're in the precinct, because they know too much too now. The film offers quite a lot of suspense, good acting performances (by an impressive cast) and hard-boiled action. The setting (Chicago during a severe blizzard) adds to the tension. John Carpenter's original (which was, in fact, already a sort of remake of "Rio Bravo") will always remain one of the coolest, groundbreaking action movies ever (if it were only for that brutal and hugely controversial ice cream-truck sequence alone), but this film is a neat tribute.

Jean Richet's remake of the Carpenter thriller Assault on Precinct 13 is surprisingly entertaining. Assault on Precinct 13 (2005) loses the Carpenteresque weirdness and soundtrack, and tells the story of a remote, run-down police precinct under assault using more conventional cinematography and production. This is an achievement, but not because of the difficulty of following in the footsteps of Carpenter - because the film entertains without doing so, and because the narrative - just like all of Carpenter's films- manages to keep going without regard for the improbability of the plot. In other words, the Director kept a straight face and made the film entertaining enough to allow for a certain amount of suspended disbelief.Strong, fast, characterization - part of the legacy of Carpenter's film - makes a big difference early on. The cast is uniformly excellent and the main characters - unusual for this genre - are all unique, believable and consistent. Fishburn plays a big bad guy incarcerated by fiat in the small, run-down Precinct 13. Hawke is the Sergeant in charge of the precinct - a man with psychological and drug problems associated with a traumatic event which opens the film. These two improbable allies must pool their resources to defend the precinct against... who? The film is first and foremost an action film. The action is typical for the genre as of 2005 - i.e. - much of what takes place is only believable because of its entertainment value and internal consistently. Suspense is well constructed throughout the film, and the pace of the film reaches a frenetic level about 1/3rd of the way through, never letting up. The cinematography is surprisingly dissimilar to the original. Richet's film is more of a standard suspense thriller than anything bearing Carpenter's signature.Recommended for its entertainment value, solid cast, and well-constructed (though somewhat ridiculous) plot.

I haven't seen Carpenter's original version but the remake seems like a very solid modern action crime/thriller with an interesting cast. Ethan Hawke may never be recognized as a great young actor by the vast majority of moviegoers but in my opinion he hasn't made a serious flop in his career so far.The rest of the cast did equally well if not better at times. A special praise goes to Laurence Fishburne who gave the best performance in the movie.Overall the film has enough to offer to be considered worthy of a second view but it still lacks a few factors that could boost it further from the mass of similar movies. ...... 3/5 ......

The story has appeared many times over the decades in increasingly violent and less stylistic forms. John Wayne was in two, the more famous of which was "Rio Bravo" (1959). A seasoned veteran has to command a few loose cannons in order to fend off an invasion. John Carpenter made the stylish and violent "Assault on Precinct 13" (1976) before his landmark horror "Halloween" (1978). Now we've arrived at this 2005 remake.Directed by Jean-Francois Richet, Ethan Hawke is the pill-popping alcoholic Jake Roenick who must round up his troops on the last day at Precinct 13 on New Year's Eve in Detroit. When a group of prisoners, including Bishop (Laurence Fishburne, in Morpheus mode) make a stop-over at Precinct 13 because of a highway accident, thugs in ski masks lay siege to it trying to get Bishop. Thinking fast, Roenick gathers up everyone, including cops and prisoners, to fend off a vicious attack.This doesn't quite live up to its predecessors in a lot of ways. It lacks true suspense and often treads the line between cool and cliché way too often. A number of plot-twists are made too, but do little to lend any weight to satisfaction. No Oscar-worthy performers, though John Leguizamo does a nice turn as a hot-headed junkie.6/10

John Carpenter's original "Assault on Precinct 13" was a film that should have been left alone. This remake, directed by Jean Francois Richet, is not without its merits, but in the end, it leaves us wishing it was better.We are given the situation that four prisoners, one of them a powerful drug dealer, are being taken from a court building to a holding facility. Because of the bad weather, it's decided, at the last minute, to have these guys taken to the old Precinct 13, which is closing.What appears to be a simple job of locking up these bad guys, turn out to be one of the most violent situations seen in movies in 2005. At first, we are led to believe the black SUVs following the transport bus are people that are trying to free Marion Bishop, the powerful criminal that doesn't want to be in jail. We keep thinking it makes sense, until we realize, these people that are trying to storm the precinct, want Bishop, because he is a dangerous man who will testify in court against them. These people are higher ups in the Detroit's police department.The film is highly entertaining and will keep anyone involved following all what's being seen. The violence is too much to watch, at times. Ultimately, Roenick, the young police sergeant, emerges as the one that deals a heavy blow to the people that are trying to kill him.Ethan Hawke does good work with his take of Roenick. Equally effective, Laurence Fishburne, who plays the bad guy, Marion Bishop. Gabriel Byrne, Maria Bello, Brian Dennehy, John Leguizamo, Drea DeMatteo, and the rest of the cast make a valuable contribution to the success of the movie.Fans of this film genre will probably compare this remake against the original one, and while this one is not as satisfying, it will not bore anyone.

John Carpenter's 1976 original was a little cheesy and low-budget looking at times, but it was still a very well done film. It was short and to the point. Carpenter knew how to build psychological tension and his vision of a street gang attacking a police station was menacing. The original Precinct 13 also offered social commentary. It was made at a time when Americans were fleeing the inner city due to a proliferation of gang violence the police seemed powerless to control. The original Precinct 13 registered with the American public in much the same way as the Death Wish and Dirty Harry films.The trouble with the updated 2005 version is it has nothing to say. It's very much a generic Hollywood thriller/action flick. The big-name cast all turn in mediocre performances, trying their best to work with the mundane script and direction. The psychotic street gang has been replaced with crooked cops. The crooked cop aspect is supposed to be an unexpected plot "twist", but it's been done to death and elicited a bored *sigh* from me. Most of the original's psychological tension has been replaced with endless dialog that never seems to go anywhere. In the 1976 version the street gang is mostly seen as faceless shadows in the dark of night. They seem to kill purely for fun, almost like something out of a horror movie. We don't truly understand their motivations, which makes them far more frightening. The updated version gives us way too much information about the crooked cops and they become not nearly as threatening. Overall, there's a strong feeling of "seen that before" when watching the 2005 version. There's nothing special or unique going on. This isn't a terrible movie, but it doesn't offer any new ideas. It's a classic example of Hollywood playing it safe and winding up with a middle of the road film.

I did not think I was going to like this remake of the 1976 cult favorite. I was, however, pleasantly surprised. The movie was fun. The characters were likable. The action was well paced. The sets and backgrounds were excellent, giving the viewer a feeling of desolation and dread that the original movie had in abundance. I originally heard that Ethan Hawke's character was the same as his character in "Training Day", but I totally disagree. Oddly enough, both characters were named Jake. So, they were both young police officers named Jake who were going through a rough period, but Ethan Hawke played both differently. This is not a movie to bring your kids to; too much violence. This might be a good date movie, but not a first date movie. All in all, I give "Assault on Precinct 13" (2005) an A-. If you want to have fun, watch it. - JFLY

Sgt. Jake Roenick (Ethan Hawke) is on desk duty 8 months after a botch undercover operation kills his close fellow officer. It's New Year's Eve and he's in charge of Detroit's precinct 13 which is suppose to be closed after midnight. Crime lord/cop killer Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne) has just been captured and is being transported to jail. However a huge snow storm redirects the transport to precinct 13. This attracts a large group of gunmen, and the skeleton staff must fend them off with help from the prisoners.This is solid action thriller with good solid actors. The action is tight and economical. Ethan Hawke is able to create a compelling central character and a solid complex relationship with Fishburne. The constant snow storm creates its own atmosphere. It's a fun little action movie.

It's time for the old precinct to retire, the last night, after which it's not required, with Jake Roenick holding fort, there should be nothing to report, what could possibly go wrong, you might enquire - where do you begin! Certainly one of the worst remakes of all time, although why you would want to remake an untouchable original is beyond me. Gabriel Byrne is the biggest culprit in this pantomime, if you want a bad cop you need to at least come close to Gary Oldman's incarnation in Leon, which he doesn't by some distance. Add to that a plot that might have worked when cowboys (and girls) roamed the prairies but in a modern setting just leads to ridicule and mockery. All in all, thoroughly unentertaining.

Rating: ** 1/2 out of **** A lot of people will likely hate this movie by virtue of the fact that it's a remake. Being open-minded, I'm not offended by the thought of a beloved cult classic getting a Hollywood remake; it is, after all, quite interesting to see how the big-budget treatment affects the same premise. In this case, the result is not too shabby at all, certainly better than the ads would indicate, even if this is a remake that doesn't stand on its own nearly as well as Zack Snyder's Dawn of the Dead.Assault on Precinct 13 (referred to as AP13 from here on out) stars Ethan Hawke as cop Jake Roenick, a former undercover officer who's now strictly on desk duty after a horrible mishap that resulted in the deaths of two fellow officers. It's his last day (coincidentally also New Year's Eve) in Precinct 13, and he's simply overseeing the transfer along with another cop (Brian Dennehy) and a secretary (Drea de Matteo).Due to the snowy conditions, a prison bus transferring dangerous cop-killer Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne) is forced to take refuge in Precinct 13. But it becomes clear soon enough that there are a large number of corrupt cops surrounding the precinct, determined to kill Bishop and every possible witness inside. Faced with no other options, Roenick frees and arms the prisoners, using whatever means necessary to battle against the far more numerous and better armed enemy.John Carpenter's 1976 cult hit was a fairly effective thriller, maintaining an atmospheric claustrophobia that balanced nicely with the well-choreographed shootouts. Though there are many differences between these versions, both plot-wise and stylistically, this remake essentially opts for the same brand of edge-of-the-seat excitement, but as is par for this generation's offerings, the action sequences are pumped up with a lot more firepower and a lot less plausibility.As silly as Carpenter's film may have seemed to the discriminating viewer, it was a smartly plotted thriller with only a few minor holes. This remake, on the other hand, is riddled with all sorts of logical inconsistencies. The most obvious one? In less than a day, the head of the corrupt team of cops (played by Gabriel Byrne) is somehow able to assemble his men on very short notice and arm them with top-notch weaponry that must have been hell to sign out from the armory (he even calls in a chopper at one point). And as the body count significantly rises, one has to wonder how he plans to cover up the massive blood shed (blaming it on Bishop's men doesn't quite explain how his own men were killed or what they were doing at the precinct).The body count is almost bafflingly low considering the numbers mentioned (Byrne says he's got 33 men, hard to believe corruption could spread to every one of them); I could swear fewer characters were killed than were even involved in the entire film. Other problems include a scene where Byrne chooses to execute a survivor rather than use this person as a bargaining chip, and as the number of survivors within the station dwindles down, one character conveniently remembers an escape route just as the building's about to be invaded. The climax, a disappointingly rote cat-and-mouse chase, is set in a forest apparently right by the station, but I could have sworn an overhead shot established the precinct in an entirely urban section of Detroit. Along with the sagging pace in the second half, predictability also hampers the suspense, it's too easy to figure out who's going to die and in what order. The identity of the traitor is also another easy guess, considering the very tiny list of suspects still around by that point. For all these nagging flaws, the film is still worth mildly recommending for one lengthy, high-octane action setpiece. The first major invasion of the precinct is a thrilling sequence, every bit the equal of the similar siege in the original, though louder and faster-paced. The action even boasts a little bit of strategy and some mild thought. Other action scenes are competently handled, but lack the claustrophobic edge of the shootouts set within the precinct.The cast is mostly first-rate, even Ethan Hawke, who usually does little more than coast by on his best Tom Cruise impersonation. Laurence Fishburne, channeling a darker version of Morpheus, does well with what little material he has to work with, and it's fun to see Brian Dennehy barking up a storm again. Of the two female leads, Maria Bello is the one with more "depth," but she's almost fatally annoying as the whiny psychologist. Drea de Matteo, on the other hand, is one of those rare women who somehow still looks sexy even when she's dressed as a hooker (or is she sexy because she's dressed that way?). Gabriel Byrne makes a solid impression despite the limited screen time, and Ja Rule and John Leguizamo are apparently only on hand to provide some truly lame comic relief and take equal turns participating in one very gruesome beating.AP13 came very close to getting a two-star rating from me, but in this day and age when action films need sci-fi, fantasy or horror elements to succeed, there's no denying this film is better than the usual lot churned from Hollywood. This remake is an earnest attempt in crafting an edge-of-the-seat thriller and even if it only gets halfway there, that's still better than most pure action movies these days.

Everybody knows that remakes are never much cop – very rarely do they improve on the often classic originals. ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 isn't better than the John Carpenter film from the '70s, but it IS a decent remake. This is because it updates and changes the original film in positive ways that make it different enough to be worth watching. That, and the fact that it's a very good little thriller in itself.The gang in the Carpenter movie was scary because it was random. There was no motive, just the fact that they were out to kill people for the fun of it. That's gone in this movie; the gang here has a definite motive that leads them into a life-or-death struggle for survival. There's a big twist which I won't reveal, but the fact that the gang are all armoured and possessing high-power weapons makes them even more of a threat than in the original movie. I loved it. Key scenes from the Carpenter movie are revisited, but turned around on their head to seem fresh and new.The worst thing about the film is probably the script, which relies far too heavily on profanity for effect. This is a big no-no, in my opinion, and reveals a dearth of imagination in James De Monaco's screenplay. Still, French director Jean-Francois Richet makes a decent fist of it, investing his film with plenty of suspense and tension, and the action scenes are all very well handled. I was frequently on the edge of my seat, and I haven't been able to say that about many recent action films from Hollywood. The only bit I didn't like was a bit ripped off from DIE HARD 2 where an icicle is used to dispatch a bad guy.ASSAULT ON PRECINCT 13 also benefits from an ensemble cast who make the best of what the script gives them. Ethan Hawke, who I never have liked – and still don't like much – works hard in the lead hero role. His work doesn't quite pay off and make him charismatic, but I think he does a good job, for what it's worth. Laurence Fishburne's still trading on his 'king of cool' image that he gained from THE MATRIX trilogy, so he doesn't have to do much work here, but he's one of the actors holding it all together. Gabriel Byrne is underused, as is Brian Dennehy, although it's nice to see the latter actor back on screen in a role reminiscent of his one from FIRST BLOD. Elsewhere we have John Leguizamo (CARLITO'S WAY) having fun as an on-the-edge addict, Maria Bello a little out of place, Ja Rule better than he was in HALF PAST DEAD, Kim Coates playing a jerk yet again, and Drea de Matteo as a lowlife. What's more to say?

A piece of solid action with a solid cast. The original (John Carpenter, 1976) I prefer, but the remake is good enough to kill some spare time, yet nothing really memorable.

I hate movies that have potential and fall on their proverbial faces, and this movie came very close to biting the dust. The writing was blasé, the acting was blasé (although Laurence Fishborne was by far the least offensive), the directing was horrid ... it just wasn't done real well. The action was fine but nothing stupendous. A solid "C" if there was one ... and I have to say Ethan Hawke and Drea de Matteo really bit it with their quasi-acting in this movie - although I will have to say that I'm not sold that it was all the actor's fault, as a great deal of the wasted effort was definitely in the writing.A solid rental. Not for box office.

A crappier remake to a cult classic.But if you like by the numbers predictable convoluted and mindless action, well, this is it.

First off, the "original" other film critics keep referring to is actually a remake, itself. John Carpenter's "Assault on Precinct 13" is really a remake of an older western entitled simply, "Rio Bravo." So while everyone keeps whining about remakes, let it be known that they have always remade older works. Always. At any rate, as far as remakes go, this one is a tad better than decent. Not surprisingly, it surpasses neither of the originals in atmosphere, content, and execution. However, it is still quite well put together and very enjoyable. Having been built around Carpenter's solid plot, there are some new innovations used as "industrial siding" all around the outer edges. While some elements were shaky, it had the solidity of Carpenter's previous work to stabilize it.I won't detail the plot as that has been done repeatedly here at IMDb, but suffice it to say that it remains fairly faithful to the source materials, without giving us a blow by blow carbon copy of either previous versions.Action fans will find this a delight, and those who are fans of police dramas will also find it interestingly entertaining. Those among the audience in my hometown theater were enthralled. We aren't a town of demonstrative people; there aren't many walk outs, and the occasions where there is applause are few and far between. There were instances of neither for this event.Carpenter fans, however, may be a bit affronted by this work.All in all, this was a fun cinematic experience with superb direction, amazing vision, and some great execution. Featured are some surprise "kills," peppered with predictable turns. It was unfortunate, in my opinion, that they chose to make create their "street gang" out of corrupt police officers. It did make me appreciate Carpenter's version all the more. I missed the now infamous "Ice Cream Scene." But it was still quite enjoyable."Without pause, without regard."It rates a 7/10 from...the Fiend :.

I will fess up now and admit that I have not seen either John Carpenter's original production of Assault On Precinct 13, nor Howard Hawks' Rio Bravo, upon which both are based. Carpenter himself has, in a manner of speaking, remade his Assault On Precinct 13 with Ghosts Of Mars, so there is a small basis for comparison. Where Ghosts Of Mars demonstrated that Carpenter knows how to film a tense and powerful film, this update of Assault On Precinct 13 is far from tense. Truth be told, it is so straightforward that observant viewers will pick all of the so-called plot twists a mile off. Fortunately, it has a good stock of saving graces that keep it from being a write-off. Given that this is the first English language film for Jean-François Richet, it shows a fair bit of promise. It also shows once again that European directors are capable of making an interesting film where American, Australian, or even British directors will not.The plot of both Assaults On Precinct 13, to a large extent Ghosts Of Mars, and I will assume Rio Bravo, are basically alike. It is in the details where these films showing two small forces that are polar opposites against a larger, better-organised opponent make their mark. In the case of Assault On Precinct 13 circa 2005, the film tries to distinguish itself by adding a lot of details where its predecessor reputedly kept things short, sharp, and to the point. The real question is whether it works. Sometimes it does, and does so well, but there are also a few times when it really does not. A good example of when the new Assault On Precinct 13 does not work is when Brian Dennehy, one of the few actors in this remake who is old enough to have been in the original (he was not - his asking price was probably too high at the time), conveniently announces he has found a way out of the precinct via the basement. This deus ex machina not only deflates the tension of the ending a lot, it retroactively deflates the tension of the rest of the film.On the positive side, director Jean-François Richet is not shy about showing the consequences of violent actions. On two occasions in the film, characters are shot in the head. The resulting shots with the camera zooming away from faces that have a massive hole in the upper middle are enough to burn the film permanently on your retina or memory. The problem there is that they also leave one wishing the rest of the film could have excelled like those shots. Ethan Hawke struck me as the worst possible choice for a lead in this project, but he portrays the main hero with such an excellent arc that it is easy to forgive the myriad of turkeys he has before appeared in, at least for a hundred and nine minutes. Lawrence Fishburne is just barely young enough to have not been suitable for the original Assault, but the renegade prime target for the new besiegers is a role he slips into so comfortably, you will think he was born to play it. Gabriel Byrne is somewhat weak in his role as the evil leader, but this can be blamed on his appalling lack of screen time. When he is given the chance to speak, he is very good at holding one's attention.I have tried to remain objective so far, but the choice of music in the end credits could not have been worse. To call one half of the end credit roll annoying is understating things. Thankfully, Graeme Revell does such an awesome job of countering this with a tight event-based score that it is almost enough to forgive him for involving himself with turkeys like Street Fighter. It is his music that makes the Mexican standoff scene a little over halfway through the film work. Another aspect that makes the film work is the cinematography. While there are rarely more than two heads in a frame, camera motion is used correctly for a change in order to increase the tension. The dolly focus shot a third of the way into the film puts one directly into Roenick's boots to a far greater extent than a thousand shaky-cam POV shots ever could. I do not think I will ever run out of ways to express how superior European directors are because of the general lack of shaky-cam in their work. The fact that no shot in the film is zoomed in too close to actually see how the focus of the shot is interacting with others also helps a lot. What we have here, therefore, is a competently-executed action film the likes of which we have not seen since the late 1980s.This is not enough to make Assault On Precinct 13 circa 2005 a classic, but it is enough for me to give it a seven out of ten. If the director manages to keep the same artistic sensibility he displayed on this film for the rest of his career, there is no telling how far he could go.

Assault on Precinct 13 is the absolute dumbest film I've seen since Charlie's Angels 2. The shame lies in the fact that they had a good cast and a good premise to work with. SPOILERS ............................................................. I know they've said this movie is a remake descendant of Rio Bravo but did the writers of this film actually watch Rio Bravo? Besides the fact that Rio Bravo is a western classic, the premise of the film was that the sheriff (John Wayne) had to keep a prisoner accused of murder from being liberated by his brother and his gang. No one wants to liberate anyone in Assault on Precinct 13. They want EVERYONE dead. So, my first question would have to be, WHY NOT JUST BURN THE WHOLE PLACE DOWN FROM THE START? Why "assault" the place at all? I know the contrived plot turn was suppose to be clever and shocking but it didn't make sense and/or was presented properly. If the veteran cop was in on it from the start, why the need for this whole movie? If the veteran cop suddenly cut a deal at the back door during the siege, how did he even get the chance? As soon as he appeared at the door he would've been shot and they would've had their entry point. It's all just FUBAR. What part of any city can an all out war take place at a police precinct (complete with helicopters and massive explosions) but no one notices?? However, as soon as there's a fire they have to "leave before the fire department shows up"?????? How did they plan to cover up the chaos that was happening outside?? Police issue bullets in the walls, bullet casings, footprints, equipment usage, and the fact that there were going to be no bodies of "Bishop's men" to be found? How about those police snipers? How could they possibly miss so badly so often? I like the fact that when the two detainees tried to run, the snipers were foiled by two tiny mounds of snow. As if it's not possible to shoot a high powered riffle through a pile of snow. The set up was interesting although ridiculous but the movie just went off a cliff when they decided to kill that particular character with a bullet to the head for absolutely NO REASON at all. I know the makers of the film were going for shock but all they got was disgust at the cruelty and the anger of the audience. Don't you think that part of the reason why this thing is bombing at the box office is the fact that word of mouth has everyone telling friends and family to stay away from this one? That particular scene has to be a big part of that word of mouth (that and the fact that every plot turn is dumber then dirt). The conclusion remains steadily stupid as the villain pauses to deliver an Austin Powers-like diatribe instead of killing the helpless people who he has finally captured. I know several people have mentioned the closing scenes that take place in the woods of Detroit city (>snicker<) but why did Ethan's character just wander off in to the woods in the first place? He doesn't even look to see if the SUV with the secretary and his friend gets away? They just cut to him prowling slowly in the woods, pistol in hand. GACK. I could go on but won't. All I can say is that you want to avoid this stupidity at all cost.

This well-made siege-thriller features plenty of action, excitement and some interesting characters but it's also incredibly tense. The tension is created by the predicament that a small group of staff in a police precinct face when they come under attack from a far more powerful and well-armed group of assailants who are intent on killing them. The fact that the besieged staff can't contact anyone to get any help and are led by a psychologically-damaged station sergeant only makes matters worse. Furthermore, when they have to make some uncomfortable alliances and start to incur casualties, things get even more edgy.New Year's Eve is a significant time for Detroit's Precinct 13 because it's due to be closed down at midnight and the only staff still on duty are the officer in charge, Sergeant Jake Roenick (Ethan Hawke), veteran cop Jasper O'Shea (Brian Dennehy) and their secretary Iris Ferry (Drea de Matteo). Most of the contents of the building have already been removed and Iris is busy packing the few items that still remain. Jake is an ex-undercover cop who, eight months earlier, was involved in an operation that went wrong and resulted in the deaths of two of his fellow officers. Since that time, he's been consumed with guilt, reliant on painkillers and booze and has been placed under the care of police psychiatrist Alex Sabian (Maria Bello).Outside, a powerful snowstorm is raging and as the road conditions deteriorate, the guards who are transporting a bus-load of criminals nearby, realise that they won't be able to reach their destination and so divert to Precinct 13, where their prisoners can be locked up for the night. On board are notorious crime boss and cop killer, Marion Bishop (Laurence Fishburne), counterfeit goods dealer, Smiley (Ja Rule), Anna (Aisha Hinds) who claims to be innocent of everything she's been charged with and drug addict Beck (John Leguizamo). All four are duly secured in their cells and then some vehicles and a heavily-armed group of men surround the building and demand that Bishop be released. Jake naturally assumes that these are Bishop's men and so refuses their request. When he discovers that they are, in fact, a group of corrupt cops who have had a long business association with Bishop, it becomes clear that the lives of everyone in the building are in danger and the violent exchanges that follow, prove to be a fight to the death.With the well-choreographed action taking place in the dark and things becoming increasingly claustrophobic for the besieged group, the movie's atmosphere becomes really threatening. Ethan Hawke does a good job of showing how significantly his character has changed since the events that had such a powerful effect on his psychological state and Laurence Fishburne makes a powerful impression as the ultra-cool Bishop. Drea de Matteo is amusing as the secretary with a reputation for bedding "bad boys" and the rest of the cast also bring something interesting to the portrayals of each of their characters.

On New Year's Eve In Detroit police manage to catch Bishop, a dangerous gangster which is known to kill a cop. He is transferred to a maximum security prison but due to storms are forced to stop in section 13 who is Chief Jake who manages to overcome a difficult moment when a few months ago in a mission because of his wrong orders a few people were killed. At this point he and his team are obliged to take the detainees in cells but inside are appearing a few masked mans and cops think it is Bishop 's friends who came to get him out of there but later learn that they are some cops actually who wants the gangster dead because it holds some valuable information about them and that might incriminate the dirty cops if they are disclosed. Now Jake is forced to ally with the prisoners to keep up and prevent them from reaching Bishop but occurs a few unexpected surprises.A film which action is not absent, has a good dose of mystery and good performances from Ethan Hawke and Laurence Fishburne. It should not be missed.

Potential spoilersif you've never seen a bad cop movie before.The guilt ridden hero cop abusing drugs and alcohol, dirty cops (ethically and physically), cops who dramatically rack the slides on their guns before they go of to do something (nobody keeps a loaded gun??), shooters with full automatic weapons who can't hit each other from 20 feet away, people who die instantly from non-lethal stab wounds, etc Hawke shows up in uniform with something on his face. What is it?? Five o'clock shadow? A goatee?? I spent more time trying to figure this out than paying attention to the movie. No self respecting police officer would show up in uniform like that or allow another to do so. He looks like some kid who walked in off the street.Stylishly shot and a great cast, but its failure to be anchored in something close to reality turns it into an unintentional spoof.