Finally, after the previous 2 outings of the caped crusader, the Batman franchise is back on track. Having been a big comic collector over the years and a long time fan of the Dark Knight, I was especially disappointed by 'Forever' and 'Batman and Robin'. To me, these film lost the essence of what drives Bruce Wayne to do what he does and turned Batman into more of a pop star than misunderstood hero.Thankfully though, Nolan has gone back to the roots of the character, portraying a confused and angry Bruce Wayne, who ultimately rises to become Gotham's greatest champion. Don't expect to see loads of shots of Batman in this film though. It is the story of Wayne and focuses mainly on his years of training and preparation for becoming Batman. You are almost teased throughout the first half of the movie, waiting to see the excellent Christian Bale in the costume, as it keeps holding back to keep you in anticipation. When Batman does finally turn up on screen, it is well worth the wait. In my opinion, Bale was born for this role and for the first time when watching a Batman film, I enjoyed the scenes of Wayne being Wayne as much as Wayne being Batman.One of the strongest features of the film, is the way that it manges to suck you in believe that a 'Batman' could be a reality one day. The technology is current, with no use of silly OTT weapons and gadgets, again making the film work by today's standards. Plus, we are not allowed to forget that Batman is still just a man under the costume and there are times when he gets a bit of a kicking and shows that he can be vulnerable too, something we sometimes forget when watching a superhero flick. Gone too, are the silly villains!!! Jack Nicholson was the perfect Joker but from there it went downhill. Thankfully, in this movie the bad guys are actually fairly 'normal' and manage to be menacing at the same time.Which finally brings me to the cast. I always had high expectations for this film when the cast was announced. Let's face it, what a line up! Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, Liam Neeson, Katy Holmes, Ken Watanabe and Tom Wilkinson are not to be sniffed at. Even an old favourite of mine makes an appearance: Rutger Hauer! Awesome. Actors of this calibre would never have gotten involved in this project if they didn't have faith in Christoper Nolan's talents and thankfully they took the leap...For the comic book fans out there, waiting to see this movie, let me assure you that you won't be upset. Imagine the darkness of the 'A Death In The Family' and the 'Year One' story lines. I have never met a fan of Batman who didn't love these books. Well, this is the kind of Batman you can expect from Bale: Dark, brooding and tortured by his past, yet the hero we have come to love. For those of you who are not comic fans, then just look forward to seeing how Batman should be. This film is a credit to Bob Kane's original vision and a testament to all the talented artists and writers who keep the legend of the Dark Knight alive in the comic books today....Thank you Mr. Nolan and thank you Mr. Bale. In fact thanks to everyone who worked on this film. Batman finally Begins from here....

Batman Begins was a massive breath of fresh air when it came out in 2005. Coming 8 years after Warner Brothers jumped the bat, as it were, with Joel Schumacher's childish mess, "Batman and Robin", Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins brought a maturity and seriousness to The Caped Crusader that had been absent since Tim Burton left the world of Gotham. While Batman Begins might not boast the visual prowess or rich villains of Burton's two Batman movies, it fleshed out the character of Bruce Wayne in a way no movie has since.Batman Begins is an origin story straight through, detailing Bruce Wayne's (Christian Bale) emergence from tragically scarred child to a symbol of heroism and darkness. After training with Ra's al Ghul and the League of Shadows, Bruce Wayne returns to Gotham in perfect mental and physical shape. What Nolan and screenwriter David Goyer do perfectly here, is inject Bruce Wayne with an emotion never before seen in a Batman movie. You can feel the pain and grief Wayne is experiencing and you can see why he decides to become a living symbol of good. The first full origin story for Batman on film, Batman Begins is very much told from Bruce's point of view. Earlier Batman movies often focused more heavily on developing the villains, leaving Bruce Wayne in the shadows. The approach that keeps Batman a dark, mysterious figure is a valiant one, and it makes sense. However, context rarely hurts, and Batman Begins provides the character with heaps of context. You can clearly understand the emotions and motivations of the man behind the mask. The origin is also utterly believable. You can see why Bruce Wayne dresses like a bat, why he needs a cape, how he gets a super-car and super-gadgets, and why he hides in a cave. Does it strip Batman of his mythic status? Yes, a bit. Luckily, unlike Nolan's two follow-ups, Begins doesn't get too carried away with realism, retaining a comic book style that its successor would forget.While it does take a while for Bruce Wayne to fully become the bat, it is worth it. Once Bruce Wayne finally dons the cape and cowl, there are a few jaw-dropping action scenes including a brilliant batmobile chase scene and a thrilling climax on Gotham's elevated trains. The atmosphere and feeling of Gotham City is nearly perfect in it's own way. It does not have the Gothic beauty of Tim Burton's Batman universe, but it's blend of comic book dinginess and contemporary sleekness makes Gotham a terrifically realized cityscape. The city feels like what a comic book world would be like if it actually existed. Batman himself is a dark, brooding, wonderfully realized character in his own right and he shares the screen with an ensemble of great actors. Michael Caine as Alfred, Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, and Gary Oldman as Commissioner Gordon are standouts in an ensemble cast that is playing the comic book material straight as an arrow. Cillian Murphy as the Scarecrow is an excellent but criminally underused baddie, but on the whole, the supporting cast elevates the material.Batman Begins is still as fresh today as it was more than a decade ago. The origin of Batman is engaging, engrossing, and emotional. The story provides a context to the Bruce Wayne character that elevates the movie beyond its fun comic book plot. The origin is a satisfying and believable one, and once Batman finally enters the scene, the action is unmatched. Batman Begins is a strong, confident summer superhero blockbuster with more maturity and emotional truth than most dramas. I hesitate to call it the definitive interpretation of Batman (Batman 1989 takes that title), but Batman Begins is the best of Christopher Nolan's Batman movies, a film that balances gritty realism, human drama, and thrilling comic book fun.85/100

To start off this review I'd like to go back to the original batman series. Adam West hammed it up in what has to be the campest yet enjoyable version of batman. It was cheesy, it had the POW, WHACK, KABOOM, very very tongue-in-cheek which, brings me to my next point, is what batman eventually became. Batman, featuring Michael Keaton was a good film, keaton was a good batman, he portrayed the dark knight to a whole new army of fans, a darker batman, less camp, plus with a villain such as Jack Nicholson (turning in another great performance) as the Joker it was win win. Where from there? A sequel, Keaton yet again, Batman Returns, not as good as its predecessor but still a thoroughly enjoyable film with the villains being Penguin (Devito) and Catwoman (Pfeiffer) adding something different to the batman series. All is going well, then things start to go sour. Keaton is gone and in comes Kilmer who has to be the most wooden Batman ever, in come the clichés, the tongue in cheek one-liners and so on but Batman still has some credibility until, dare I mention it, Batman & Robin. This ruined the Batman series with Clooney just being the eye-candy for the ladies, the addition of Batgirl (oh dear Lord) and the villains just coming out with the most tongue-in-cheek one liners ever, example Mr Freeze "You're not sending me to the cooler", wrong, oh so wrong. Something had to be done and this was Batman Begins. This film rescues the Batman series single-handedly, it's a shame it didn't start off this way as it might not of died on it's rear. Bale is an inspired choice as Batman bringing a more serious side to Batman, the story is well paced, it's not all talk or just mind-numbing action, it actually keeps you gripped as you want to find more about Bruce Wayne's past. The only reason it misses out on a 10 is the quite pitiful bad guy scarecrow If you've not seen it I don't want to give too much away about the story but throw away all your perceptions about Batman because Batman is back and Batman has truly begun. D-man.

To tell the truth, I thought the Batman franchise could never be saved, and I was really let down that I may never see my favorite superhero in a good movie ever again. Then I saw the preview to Batman Begins, I didn't really know what to think. New Batman. New Alfred. New story. New style. I wasn't sure why I wanted it 'the old way', but maybe I wanted to the actors in the Batman films I grew up with, to revive themselves and make a good Batman movie. I wanted Robin and sadly, Batgirl, alongside Batman saving the world from another familiar villain.I heard Batman Begins, and I thought great, this was called "Batman" in 1989, selfishly I said, "I want something new!".But, of course being a big Batman fan, I went opening night to Begings. 2 and half hours later, like the rest of the audience was completely blown away. It was the only movie I had ever been to (and yes I have been to some great ones) where the crowd claps and the end. This was not just golf claps for a popcorn clip, this was a standing ovation for 10:30 pm show in a crowded theater in Austin, Texas.I never would have thought this would have worked, even with Nolan directing. But I was wrong, so wrong. After seeing the X-Mens and Spidermans, I clearly thought Marvel had the upperhand and DC was just simply trying to keep up, again, so wrong.Nolan gave us a dark, gritty, and pleasantly realistic, view of Batman. Bale gives a tremendous performance as both Batman and Bruce Wayne. Michael Caine was a fabulous Alfred, and Morgan Freeman almost stole the show as Luscious Fox.Even though X-Men and Spiderman(all of them) are wonderful superhero movies, Batman Begins, is just a good, no, great movie. And I think that is what blew people away, that it wasn't just some superhero, special effect, hero gets girl, good guy wins movie, it was a truly dark and well crafted movie, and it maybe stupid to say, but it didn't even feel like you were watching a superhero movie.I don't even think Burton, and his animated style(which works), could have revived this troubled series, that Schumaker wrecked, because like Fantastic Four and Daredevil, tried over do it and give us the latter part of things.So, here is to you Chris Nolan. You saved a franchise. You made an unforgettable movie, that will be remembered as the best superhero movie of all time, but just an all around great and unforgettable movie classic.

It sickened me in the past to see the Batman movie franchise slowly digging it's way to an early grave. After the quality Tim Burton films, the series pretty much went down the toilet, beginning a horrifically campy age of 'Bat credit-cards' and an armored Arnold Schwarzenegger tossing cringe-worthy puns at a Batman who seemed to be trying not to be embarrassed by the fact that his costume had nipples. So what could Warner Brothers producers hope to do to resurrect the franchise? Pretend it never happened, and start the whole series over again with a talented director, compelling story and capable cast. Enter Christopher Nolan, the mastermind behind 2000's 'Momento', widely praised as one of the most innovative films of the decade. As director/co- screenwriter, Nolan creates a richly dark, atmospheric world for Batman to inhabit, similar to that of the Burton films, but less cartoony. The film's screenplay, written by Nolan and David S. Goyer is quality stuff, it's true that some of the dialog exchanges can seem kind of contrived, particularly between Wayne and Liam Neeson's character, Ducard, but it sounds so classy you tend not to care. Nolan also puts a lot of trust in his audiences to stay put while the first hour of the film comprehensively explores Bruce Wayne's backstory, with no cape donning and few fight sequences. Nevertheless, the pace never slows, and the story is so unexpected and fascinating (who would have expected a Batman film to begin in a prison in Tibet? only Nolan could pull it off!) there's little chance of us losing interest. And this way, we really get a sense of who Bruce Wayne is, a trait none of the past movies were able to capture, including the Burton films. We see what drives him, what leads him to become this iconic crime fighter, and the reasoning behind the mask.Of course, to help the audience get under Bruce Wayne's skin, it doesn't hurt to have such a talented lead as Christian Bale. Bale has been emerging as one of the most talented actors of his generation, and he brings that talent to a peak here, playing the darkest of all superheroes. If you were to break down the role of Batman/Bruce Wayne, you would find that it is essentially three characters: Wayne as Batman, behind the mask; Wayne's public facade as the billionaire playboy; and the real, brooding Bruce Wayne. Bale plays all three of the characters to absolute perfection, and molds them together well enough to make it clear to show they are still the same person. He has been given tons of accolades for his performance already, and needless to say, he deserves every one.And the sheer quality of the supporting cast is mind-boggling, if for the number of big names only. It's very hard to find a weak spot in the incredibly strong array of performances here, but if one had to be found, it would have to be Katie Holmes. It's not that she gives a bad performance, on the contrary, but just she seems too young to be convincing as a district attorney. For me, Michael Gough will always be the definitive Alfred, but Michael Caine does an excellent job of taking over the role, giving a very strong (and often funny) performance. Liam Neeson is sheer class as Ducard, Wayne's mysterious mentor, as is Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, Wayne's arms manufacturer and provider of the Batman gear. It's wonderful to see the incredibly talented and much underrated Gary Oldman as Sgt. Gordon, the only decent cop in Gotham, and he truly makes the role his own. Even cult favorite Rutger Hauer makes an appearance as Richard Earle, the ambitious head of Wayne Enterprises. And (surprise surprise!) the villains are also actually menacing for once, as opposed to cartoony and corny. Cillian Murphy just about walks away with the show as the truly chilling Scarecrow (the sequences involving his 'fear gas' are surprisingly frightening) Ken Watanabe is mysterious and creepy as guild leader Ra's Al Ghul and Tom Wilkinson is very convincing as Carmine Falcone, head of the Gotham city mob. Nolan's knack for realism also comes as a breath of fresh air in this age of CGI bloated blockbusters - there are next to no computer generated shots in the movie, even a sequence with Batman standing on top of a high building staring down at the city was filmed with a stuntman. And it really works, the Batmobile actually interacts with it's environment, and looks so much better real than computer generated. But don't think that the film will come across as too serious and stuffy because of Nolan's realism - true, Gotham seems too dark and dirty to come across as a fantasy world, but Batman Begins retains that unmistakable sense of fun that seems to only be present in comic book movies. We jeer and fear the villains, and cheer the hero as he lays his life on the line to vanquish evil and save the city. And that is how it should be. There's even a surprising twist near the end, which is doubly surprising because it actually comes as a shock. What's not to love here?(and, further cudos to director Nolan for finally managing to make a swarm of bats actually frightening for once)Overall, I'd have to label Batman Begins 'The must see movie of the summer' - it's a well written, authoritatively directed, impeccably acted (especially by Bale's powerhouse lead performance and Cillian Murphy's sickly menacing Scarecrow) and very high quality production. Indeed, most other summer blockbusters could learn a thing or two from Batman Begins. If the Batman franchise died under it's own gaudiness years ago, let us rejoice this glorious rebirth - Batman truly does begin here.-10/10

Christopher Nolan (and cast) have pulled off what I hadn't dared to dream - a Batman every bit as good as Burton/Keaton's vision - and eradicated the camp, feverish memories of Clooney, Kilmer and (cough..) O'Donnell.The story is as good an origin story as you'll find - covering all the major (true-to-the-comic) events, and not wasting ages on them. We see Wayne's all-important training period (previously ignored), and his connection to the Tibetan shadow-ninja clan led by Ra's Al Ghul. We see Bruce come up with ideas for his symbol, his costume, his gadgets, his car, his cave - IT ALL FITS SO PERFECTLY.That's not all - Liam Neeson is perfect (as ever, when Lucas isn't writing his lines), Batman's first mad nemesis (the Scarecrow) is genuinely frightening; with some outstandingly scary 'fear' effects.. Gary Oldman looks just like a young Commissioner Gordon (and doesn't dominate), Morgan Freeman and Rutger Hauer give solid heavyweight support to the boardroom machinations at Wayne Enterprizes. I love Michael Gough(?) but Michael Caine is great as Alfred. It's only Katie Holmes who didn't ring true for me - not because of her performance, but simply because she looks all of 15 years old (sorry Katie). I am always blown away by Christian Bale, and this is no exception.The fights are great, the Bat-gadgets all there, the car is amazing, the plot is thorough and exciting, Gotham looks great, Batman really is frightening & menacing (and lethal!).. And the scenes with the bats themselves FINALLY get across the idea of how scary they can be.There is some humour, but it's fairly dry. The soundtrack, like all the best original soundtracks, is excellent - you hardly know it's there, but the emotions of the scene are enhanced and boosted. For the most part this is a serious Batman film, with plenty for long-time fans. This NEW Batman is one I'd like to see again. Bravo Mr Nolan, bravo.

I had fearful reservations about this one. I loved Tim Burton's Batman - 12 years old when it came out I was the perfect age for it and I also enjoyed Batman Returns. The franchise went so wrong under Joel Schumacher that I wasn't sure I wanted it resurrected. Not least because Batman was one of the few comics I read and enjoyed as a kid and was always my favourite superhero. I grew up reading the comics, watching reruns of the Adam West TV show and then getting Burton's celluloid vision. I was spoilt for choice as a kid but as an adult now I was concerned revisiting the franchise, especially given Warner's record over the last decade of screwing up summer blockbusters with potential all over the place (dare I bring up the Matrix sequels?)However, I am pleased to report I could not have been more wrong about how great Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins is. This is better than Burton. Sacrilege, you say?! Well Burton was still cartoony in many elements, he wasn't churning out the bilge of Schumacher but Burton's Batman was still over the top. As a kid this was ideal but Nolan's Batman is real. Everything in this world seems plausible and it is therefore a world that draws you in. Characters' vulnerability is that much more present. Every bruise, every scare, every concern, every emotion seems real.Part of this is that Nolan has assembled an exemplary cast. Again, this concerned me prior to seeing the film. I wasn't sure a cast of big name legends like Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman and well known names like Liam Neeson and Katie Holmes wouldn't detract and distract from Batman. I was always sure Christian Bale could be the great moody Batman he's been waiting his career to be but the others I wasn't so sure about.That said Bale is not just good, he's superb. I never thought I'd really be able to envision anyone other than Michael Keaton as the definitive Batman for me but since seeing Batman Begins a couple of days ago Bale has cemented himself in the position. Perhaps Keaton will now be able to escape the spectre of Batman he hasn't truly shaken off for 13 years.The rest of the cast is also pitch perfect. Cillian Murphy is creepy as hell, Liam Neeson is authoritative and imposing, Katie Holmes is strong and sexy (I particularly thought she'd be insipid, she should jettison Tom Cruise and let her talent - which she does have naysayers just watch Pieces Of April - speak for itself) and Michael Caine is an Alfred you've never seen but in fact far more likely as a butler than the aristocratic pomp with which he is usually portrayed. Gary Oldman is also superb in a rare wholly decent character for him as Lieutenant Jim Gordon who gets far more to so here than Gordon has ever had to do before. Only Tom Wilkinson is a little off with a slightly comedic wise-guy American accent that never really convinces.The emotional bond between Bruce Wayne and Alfred is actually a wonderful human heart to the film than Nolan and Goyer have written perfectly.Don't let that make you think the action is not front and centre though. From Wayne's training through the early stages of the film to his early missions as Batman at about the half way point to a thrillingly choreographed chase sequence and an edge of your seat finale this film delivers the cool quotient in bucket loads.Great villains (especially Murphy), great story, great cast, great action... put simply, great film. Probably the best comic-book movie ever made (that's excluding the genius Sin City which I consider a moving comic-book rather than a comic-book movie, that will never be bettered but Batman is a different beast and the best of its kind).

A young Bruce Wayne watches in horror, as his parents are killed in front of him, later in life, he vows to remove the criminal element from Gotham City.A word on Christopher Nolan first, I am a huge fan, I think of Inception, Dunkirk and Interstellar, but his magical trio of Batman movies began here, a movie that put the franchise back on top.I'm not always sold on origins movies, there have been several misfires, this is one of, if not the best, it feels very organic, at no point does it try too hard, or overdo it, the balance between story, introduction, action and character, pretty much perfect.The Cinematography is incredible almost twenty years on, the choreography, fight scenes look terrific, made at a time where the purpose of the music was to assist the film and not to drown it out, it is also excellent.Christian Bale was perfect casting, one of the best actors in the business, he is first rate, the balance between Bruce Wayne and Batman is spot on, what a skilled actor he is.An incredible supporting cast, Cillian Murphy is equally as good as Bale, putting in a fiendishly creepy and sinister performance as Crane, Freeman, Caine, Neeson, Oldman, I don't think it could have gotten any better than this.Fantastic, 10/10.

I got a chance to see 'Batman Begins' just this past Friday evening. I must say that before seeing the film, I felt in my heart this is the 'Batman' film we've been waiting for. Within ten minutes into the movie, I turned to my date and said to her, "This is it! This is the movie!" I just can't believe that after all these years, Warner Bros. finally got it right. For me the most intriguing part of the film, apart from the great script, and great acting, was Christopher Nolan's decision to base the film in reality. Deciding that Batman could really exist in our universe and our world was a stroke of genius. Another aspect of the film that's so refreshing is that instead of the focus being on the villain, Batman is the film's star. And rightly so. It's amazing what can happen when a studio leaves a respected director, and the creative team alone, and allow them to make the best movie possible. The only two negatives that I can think of is Katie Holmes and the fight sequences. Holmes does indeed look like a teenager playing grown-up. Her performance isn't bad per SE, it's just that you really don't buy her as an Assistant D.A. As for the fight sequences, I felt the cameras angles were too tight on the action, edited too quickly, and lit too dark so that you really couldn't tell what was going on and determine who was hitting who. Maybe we can attribute this to the fact that Nolan is not an action director. Hopefully the next film will open up the fight sequences so we can actually see Batman use the martial arts skills he developed during his exile. But apart from those relatively minor quibbles, the film is excellent, and I'm definitely going back on opening day June 15th, and seeing it a second time. A third and fourth viewing is definitely not out of the question.

Batman Begins is a well told story of the origin of Bruce Wayne/Batman (Christian Bale). It covers a lot of the same ground as Michael Keaton's original Batman, but goes much further in depth in many factors of his creation. It goes into great detail about subjects such as how he got his costume, what exactly it is. Same goes with the Batmobile. We also find out why he chose to be bat-like.One of the more interesting aspects here is how it shows Bruce's father, Thomas Wayne (Linus Roache), and how he molded Bruce's life and instilled good judgment within him, a point which is misunderstood about him by most people he comes in contact with. Thomas, too, teaches Bruce valuable lesson, such as "We fall so we can learn to pick ourselves up". This is pretty close to the theme of the movie or motto Bruce Wayne lives by. The resemblance of the father & son is pretty good, too.I also thoroughly enjoyed the training Bruce Wayne endured becoming "invincible". Bruce is trained by Ducard (Liam Neeson) in many ways like a ninja (The concept of Batman IS similar to a ninja). He is taught many valuable lessons in this temple and is shown no mercy. Eventually, we even see his first real enemy as a superhero/vigilante.Although I am not positive as to how true to the comic book this movie is, I am sure it took a few liberties, as did Spider-Man. Most of the small examples I have noticed are for the better and make for a good story. The Batmobile is more believable as an expensive armored vehicle that the military would not spend the money on than a juiced up Corvette (or whatever that was). Same with the Batsuit.Katie Holmes is excellent as Rachel Dawes, a D.A. who is not afraid to go after the big villains in court. Also worthy of mentioning is Michael Caine as Alfred the butler. I do not believe they could have found a better man for that role, although I could not get the image of Caine as Austin Powers' dad out of my head when he was on screen.Finally, in my opinion, Christian Bale makes a much better Batman than the three recent previous ones in Michael Keaton, Val Kilmer and George Clooney. Something about him makes Batman darker and more mysterious. Hopefully, DC Comics and movies have learned from their mistakes and we will not have to worry about Batman picking up a sidekick in this newest installment of the Batman series. 9/10

It had some original stuff that displayed intelligence and thought with regards to his suit, car and weaponry. It did try to dwell on Bruce a lot more and convey some of his darkness but I found towards the end it became very Hollywood-ised. Sometimes filmmakers try to over complicate things and this was a good example.I don't know why they can't have a simple bad guy with a simple plan, why do they have to be so elaborate a plot leaving a growing feeling of inevitability that by the end there will be some big explosions, building destruction, lots of flashing lights and Batman will prevail.The inability of seeing the fighting was immensely frustrating. I don't think I saw him actually land a single punch. It seems a fight scene would be imminent and the makers would speed up the camera, ramp up the bass on the sound, scatter the scene with crunching thuds and smacks but then forget to actually choreograph a fight. Maybe believing that if we heard the thuds and saw some activity on the screen that the audience would imagine the rest and think 'wow, what a scene'. I'd much rather have two or three clearly thrown punches or kicks than 1-2 minutes of whirling cape, bangs and crashes and people falling to the ground.It's a shame that they re-launch the franchise in a blaze of 'this is going to be darker and different' which it certainly starts off doing before descending a little bit into Hollywood banality. Why not have the courage to really shake things up, have the bravery to maybe end it badly (taking T3's lead) or just not conform to the normal formula.Showed promise, had some clever stuff and made more of an effort than some in the franchise but still nothing to rival Batman:Mask of the Phantasm as the best batman ever made in my opinion.

Batman redone. It gives us a new origin of Batman (Christian Bale) and how he got his powers and such. He still plays playboy Bruce Wayne while fighting evil as Batman. His first two villains are the Scarecrow (Cillain Murphy) who produces intense fear in his victim with a gas and Ra's Al Ghul--who trained Batman and knows ALL his weaknesses.OK--it's MUCH better then Tim Burton's dreadful movies but I still wasn't too impressed. I didn't like the new origin at all and it's a full hour before Batman even shows up! It does have good parts--Bale is dead on perfect as Bruce Wayne AND Batman. He also pumped up for the role (we have at least two shirtless scenes). It LOOKS great (if very dark) and it has elaborate special effects left and right (with tons of explosions thrown in too). But I was mostly bored. The training sequence at the beginning just went on endlessly--it was more like The Shadow's origin than Batmans. Also this movie was WAY too heavy on darkness and atmosphere. At one point it was raining and I noticed nobody in Gotham pulled in their clothes from their lines. This isn't nit picking but obviously it was all out there to add an "atmosphere" to the scene. Also when you find yourself worrying about little things like that the movie just isn't doing its job (i.e. entertaining you). However Batman's costume, the Batcave and the Batmobile are all explained pretty logically.Acting varies--Bale was just great. Michael Caine (as Alfred) matched him. Even Katie Holmes (a limited actress) was good--too bad she won't be in the sequel (this inexplicable romance/marriage with Tom Cruise is destroying her career). Laim Neeson was very dull as a teacher--he appeared to be drugged out. Gary Olman was (suprisingly) terrible as Jim Gordon--he seems VERY unsure of how to play the role. But Rutger Hauer, Linus Roache (who bears an uncanny resemblance to Bale) and Morgan Freeman were all great.To be totally honest I looked at my watch more than once. I couldn't wait for this thing to get over. All the praise this is getting is beyond me. I give it a 7--and that's mostly for the acting.

I feel like I'm always one of those people who rolls their eyes when someone says "Christopher Nolan is such a great filmmaker". Sometimes I feel like I'm being a bit mean. Nolan is an acclaimed director because of his vision for big blockbusters that are shot and film and rely on the spectacle of real sets and performances. Nolan exceeds well at what he tries to do, and its a sort of achievement that no director has accomplished. Personally, I don't love his style - it relies more on impressive setpieces then the language of film. But it mostly works. Yet I find this movies to be exactly what Christopher Nolan should not be directing - a fantasy. Because of his vision, and the conflicting interests with this story, I find Batman Begins to be an overlong, drab and rather than unengaging affair.Firstly lets start off with the story. I simply don't like this story at all. The stories of each of the movies in the Dark Knight trilogy are very loosely based on Year One, Long Halloween and The Dark Knight Returns respectively. I haven't read Year One, but Long Haloween and Dark Knight Returns I know are fantastic - and very different to their movie counterparts. So I won't blame the scripts fault on the source material. The problem with this movie to me is how quickly the events of this movie occur. In essence, Bruce Wayne changes from a boy, to a ninja, to the batman in relatively short time. So this exciting arc of Bruce Wayne becoming the Batman is lost immediately. In fact a significant problem with this movie is that it really isn't about Batman becoming Batman. It's more like "this is what Batman would do to become a hero". There needs to be a story about him becoming the figure of batman, maybe learning not to murder or become a better vigilante. Yet halfway through this movie he knows what hes doing. The central conflict, that being Batman to become a hero, is kinda mute and as such there isn't much of a thread to hold us onto the story other than "Batman needs to stop bad guy".And that's another thing - too many antagonists. I feel like no one brings this up, but there are essentially three antagonists in this movie - Carmine Falcone, Scarecrow, and Ra's Al Ghul. And they aren't really teaming up together - each antagonist gets set up, only to be foiled onto the next villain. If there was a constant driving villain as there was in the Dark Knight, this wouldnt be a problem. However Ra's Al Ghul, who is essentially the Big Bad, isn't established as a villain until the very last half hour. By that point the movie has failed to really connext with me with an opposition. So to me there becomes no real arc for batman and no real threat for the entire movie. As such, I don't really have much to connect with this character.There's also the style of Nolan. One of the criticisms I have with Nolan is that scenes kinda blend together, so that there is rarely "that scene" in a Nolan movie - its more an event that occurs in a movie. In some movies it works, but in this movie because I'm not particularly invested in the characters I don't care. It's a sort of thing you need to do in a fantasy. In real life things don't just suddenly start - in the Dark Knight for example you might have a quick little scene with Joker and Gambol because it brings a level of realism. You're not seeing the Joker comically do something for four minutes as a normal scene. Yet in a fantasy world you need that. You need, for example a four minute scene where the Scarecrow's character is introduced. You need a scene where the city is established (as a fantasy city). When you go into realism it makes sense not to sort of overemphasise or exaggerate the world. Yet Batman Begins is a more fantastical story - it surrounds a group of seemingly magical ninjas, a really poorly designed and unrealistic city and a plot in which fear gas is going to be put into the water. To me this is at conflict with Nolan's vision. It would be like making a realistic version of star wars - you can make this movie dark, but it becomes difficult for me to assume this world as ultra realistic. I can't accept these characters but only as the works of fiction, and thus the movies can't try to trick me.It's also of note that this movie is just very poorly helmed when compared to Nolan's future work. As an action director I don't think Nolan is actually that great. In this movie the action is a lot of shaky cam and quick cuts to give the illusion (very poor illusion) that action is occurring. Along with that there is no real sort of danger for Batman. He perfectly rides his Batmobile and fights with precision. But this is a learner, I guy who hasn't properly mastered being a hero. An action movie needs the hero to be endangered, especially when there is otherwise no direct threat. Thre is none here, and as such I find this to be boring.

A plunge into the depths creates real fear, as out of darkness swarming beasts cause to appear, later at, the opera, you start to tremble, shake and cower, leads to an exit, where the price is quite severe. Some years later and a journey is begun, from the light into the shadows where you run, as Ra's al Ghul becomes mentor, or is he just, a tormentor, the cycle closes, returning to the forsaken. A new friend is made and doors begin to slide, finding technologies, to halt and stop the tide, tools to fight, the criminals, mobsters without principles, a winged vigilante, in Gotham City, now resides.

I've just come back from a preview screening of Batman Begins. I went in with low expectations, despite the excellence of Christopher Nolan's previous efforts. Talk about having your expectations confounded! This film grips like wet rope from the start. I won't give away any of the story; suffice to say it mixes and matches its sources freely, tossing in a dash of Frank Miller, a bit of Alan Moore and a pinch of Bob Kane to great effect. What's impressive is that despite the weight of the franchise, Nolan has managed to work so many of his trademarks into a mainstream movie. The story does not progress in linear fashion for the first half, and there are some truly spectacular hallucination scenes. Parents thinking of taking their young kids along, think twice. When we left, a terrified 8-year-old boy was being comforted by his parents. Some of what's up there on screen really is the stuff of nightmares.Of the cast of Brits chosen to bring this American tale to the masses, Christian Bale convinces in his dual role, while Michael Caine as Alfred comes up with the humour just when the film is in danger of taking itself too seriously. Gary Oldman and Tom Wilkinson provide able support, as does Morgan Freeman. Most refreshing of all is the way that Nolan and co have come up with a way of bringing comics to the screen that does justice to the often adult source material in a way that, say, Daredevil, tried and failed to do (although the director's cut is better). If the Dark Knight doesn't return after this, there's no justice.

This film easily trumps any live-action incarnation we've scene of the Dark Knight before, borrowing heavily from both the comics and the Dini and Co. animated series. This is a hard, fast, driving, heartfelt epic that draws you into the character of Bruce Wayne and makes you damn well care. Batman doesn't play second-fiddle to the villains here like in the other films. It's his movie and that's the way it should be.Much has been said of the film's "reality" quotient, and I'm here to say it works. Nolan talks about how Batman's strong because he does push-ups, he gets around because of his gadgets, and by introducing each of them with a plausible explanation, we forget to quibble and go along with it. The technology may be fantastic, but it's believable. And, unlike the "reality" of something like Daredevil, Nolan doesn't forget his ideals halfway though and start having Batman wire-jump thirty feet into the air.

I just came back from a special screening of Batman Begins and I must say this is the best movie I have yet seen this year. All of the blockbuster movies I had seen this year with much expectation have been disappointing. But Batman Begins is not the typical corny action film; it incorporates all aspects of genre: action, fantasy, drama, and even comedy. I was at the edge of my seat from the thrills in some scenes and clapping & laughing from the humorous lines that director Christopher Nolan had written for the characters. I was really amazed by the acting performances from the new generation of actors, assuming that they wouldn't have been able to compete with and compliment the talented, veteran actors such as Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, and Liam Neeson. I mean you couldn't have asked for better actors!! Christian Bale was just perfect for the role: he had the intensity, physique, and charm you'd expect a Batman character to encompass. Every actor was casted perfectly for their roles. I even give props to Katie Holmes for playing a district attorney considering her previous roles consisted of "the young girl" or "girlfriend". I hardly ever see action films nowadays because I don't want to waste my time watching a conventional, corny, over-digitalized,plot less film. To be honest, I gave this film a chance not because it was a Batman movie, but rather because of the talented veteran actors as well as being a fan of Christopher Nolan's previous films. Whether you're a fan of Christopher Nolan or just a Batman fanatic, you'll enjoy every single second of the movie. People of ALL ages will appreciate this film. The violence in this movie is not vulgar, but rather sends out a lot of great messages of loyalty, respect, and humility. Not only is "Batman Begins" the best of the Batman series, it is the most unconventional. This recommendation is coming from a person who mostly watches art-house/independent films.

BATMAN BEGINS lives up to what I heard about it being a "darker" version, with much less reliance on flippant one-liners or gags, the result being a more realistic feel for what might have been.From the very start, there is a nice chemistry between Alfred, the butler (superbly played by Michael Caine) and Bruce Wayne (excellent job by Christian Bale). The humor is of the gentle kind, almost subtle in its implications, and it sets the stage for the more realistic flow of events to follow. There's a pulsating background score by Hans Zimmer and John Newton Howard that races along with the film, punctuating it in just the right places, at just the right moments, to give a vigorous punch to the action scenes. And there are plenty of them.But the quieter moments are all extremely well played and given depth by real characterizations--not just cartoonish figures. There is depth in all of the performances with the possible exception of Katie Holmes, an actress who speaks in a voice barely above a whisper and fails to project the belief that she is an assistant district attorney. Miss Holmes needs lessons in projecting her voice.Looming over the landscape is Liam Neeson, a distinguished actor who excels in his carefully concealed villainy. He is a force to be reckoned with and displays all of his versatility here. Equally effective in lesser roles are Morgan Freeman, Rutger Hauer as the Board Chairman that Bruce Wayne ultimately replaces, and Gary Oldman.The story is forcefully presented with magnificent visuals and eye-popping sets that all have a realistic gleam and are yet stylized enough to give credence to the fact that this is all based on a comic strip character.I can't praise Christian Bale enough as the man who dons that mask. He has all the strength and wily intelligence behind his serious good looks and makes the perfect embodiment of the action hero he is portraying. Firm of jaw, direct of gaze, he makes an excellent hero.Praise too for Cillian Murphy, who makes the most of his Scarecrow role behind a mask of creepy blandness, underplaying his role (as most of the others do) so as not to become a caricature, as so often happens in these Batman enterprises. If it's a series of running gags that you expect--as from previous Batmans--you won't find them here. The thrills come one after another, set pieces that are astounding to watch.Well worth the wait. Christopher Nolan has done an excellent job of handling his subject matter with great skill and flourish. Warning note: Perhaps a little too intense for children, but adults are certainly going to appreciate the fact that the real Batman has arrived.

British director Christopher Nolan is better known for his lower-profile thrillers such as the excellent MEMENTO and the brilliant INSOMNIA, but his first big-budget Hollywood blockbuster is still in the same league as the other two: a tremendously inventive and exciting piece of filmmaking, which breathes a whole new life into the Batman saga and proves to be the best film of the series (shame it took till number five to get it right, but that's life). Nolan dispenses with any previous cast or story lines, instead taking Batman back to his roots, and the result is a tough, violent, realistic adventure which isn't marred by any of the comic-book campness or flights of fancy which spoiled the others. Batman is just an ordinary guy here, without any superpowers, but instead his Bond-style gadgets allow him to become the caped crusader by night.The casting is extraordinary and the ensemble all give outstanding performances. Bale is terrific, finally getting some of the acclaim he deserves; I've been watching this guy for a few years now and he's been great in everything I've seen. Caine is cast as Alfred the butler, and supplies genuinely warm comedy and wit. Gary Oldman and Morgan Freeman are friendly allies, although their roles are relatively minor. Katie Holmes is the attractive love interest and she, too, is surprisingly good. However, it's the villains which have the best parts; Liam Neeson has his best role in many years and is fantastic in it, whilst THE LAST SAMURAI's Ken Watanabe is creepy as a cult leader. Cillian Murphy (28 DAYS LATER) is truly memorable as weirdo bad guy The Scarecrow, whilst Tom Wilkinson is almost unrecognisable as a hardline gangster. Even Rutger Hauer is in it, and that's gotta be good, seeing as he's been stuck in DTV movie hell for a decade.The film is long – 2 ½ hours to be precise – but the suspense and action keep it moving. There are car chases, fist fights, massive battles and lots of other stuff going on. The plot keeps you guessing all the way through and there are plenty of surprising twists. My only complaint is that the action is cut too fast, and too close, so that it's pretty hard to see what's happening, but the excellent soundtrack helps make up for that. Still, a minor complaint with what is otherwise a flawless film – let's hope they all team up to make some more classics like this.

We waited for years to get a new and better "Batman" movie than the one we got back in 1997 with "Batman & Robin" which was a complete disaster. This movie is probably the best of all the "Batman" movies to ever be released. Christopher Nolan reinvents this iconic character in the most humane way we have ever seen the character in before. It's also the greatest way we have ever seen. Christian Bale is a very good Batman, but I don't believe in his judgment all the time, taking a scene where he is about to kill a man, but fails when the same man is killed by another assassin. I didn't really get his full emotion in that scene, but he is still very good. Liam Neeson is the best villain for Batman to take on as he inhabits the iconic villain Ra's al Ghul who we all know from the comicbooks. This is a great movie that I can't help but love even more every single time I watch the movie.

BATMAN BEGINS rejuvenates if totally regenerates a film franchise . After Tim Burton's idiosyncratic vision of the comic strip , the film series became very stuck with the Joel Scumacher version . You wouldn't really blame Warner Bros if they'd ended the franchise there and then due the law of diminishing returns .Indeed it might have been seen as something of a risk casting so many big name ( Read expensive ) actors in one movie . The fact that on its first week of release it only entered the top ten weekly box office must have frightened the studio executives , only to have their fears extinguished where the movie rallied strongly spending two weeks at the top followed by several weeks in the top ten Certainly it's a film that reboots everything that's gone before . It tells the early life of Bruce Wayne while never referring to a need for a sidekick in the shape of Robin the boy wonder . Instead we see some one whose life is ripped apart by murder and is later perceived to be let down by the justice system and Bruce Wayne is not someone who will meekly let this go . In effect Bruce Wayne is now written as a comic strip version of an avenging angel along the lines of Travis Bickle /Paul Kerzey / John Eastland and all your other favourite vigilante anti-heroes from cinema Or at least that's what should have happened . Unfortunately after this motivating incident , which also takes in an involving sequence set in a Chinese gulag the film then starts playing out as a Hollywood Summer blockbuster . In many ways it's like the old blockbusters from yesteryear featuring a host star names and highly regarded not so big name character actors all brought together in one film . The great shame is that most of them are given little to do . It's a film that has a plot written around its set pieces and the characters are just as mechanical . They're not characters like people are in real life , they're generic action hero , generic action hero's sister , loyal butler , stand up police chief who is slightly dumb etc etc by actors who could be have been unknowns . This is a great pity for a film whose reputation suggested to me it was going to be much better than a simple Summer blockbuster/franchise movie Christopher Nolan is a good director , though the recent hype with INCEPTION with claims that he's " the greatest director of his generation " might leave him with some baggage . What Nolan has always been good at is editing and continues this with BATMAN BEGINS . The way he inter-cuts scenes is what makes them effective . But at the end of the day it's merely a Summer blockbuster with big names , car chases and the occasional explosion

I thought this movie was absolutely spectacular, I took me by surprise. I never thought I would see a Batman movie with depth and that showed the true fear that is the character Batman that he brings to his enemies. Christian Bale did a excellent job and I truly look forward to him in another Batman Movie! The story was absolutely amazing and in my humble opinion very original. Raj Al Ghul is an excellent villain and to portray him in the way he was portrayed was top notch, not to mention he was played very well. Many people I talked to complained that the actor who played him was not of Asian decent. However I believe it truly didn't matter at all.Not to mention Alfred was great. Gordon (later Commissioner Gordon) was excellent as well.No other Batman Movie has portrayed Batman truly as the Dark Knight and as I said already I truly look forward to more along these lines.-ND

The name of David Goyer among the writing credits made me fear the worse. After all those Zig Zag and Blades appallingness you can hardly blame me. So, you may imagine my surprise to discover that Batman Begins is not only better than the previous Batmans but much better. The genesis of the character as well as inedited insights into the seven mystery years in the life of Bruce Wayne makes the whole enterprise engaging even thrilling. Christian Bale is an American Psycho Batman, pouty lips and unexpected sexual presence. Katie Holmes is lovely, with a sharp intelligence and a riveting imperfect beauty. Michael Caine fills the shoes of the butler with wit and charm. Gary Oldman, looking more Oldman than Gary, adds another surprising characterization to his already impressive gallery. So, very nice. There is still hope in hopeless trends. Who knew.

Bale is unintentionally funny as Batman doing his, now infamous Bat-Voice. More silly than intimidating.The dialogue has all the subtlety of a sledgehammer and is delivered in the most melodramatic way possible.Take a shot every time the word "fear" or variation of it is said. You'll be drunk 30 minutes in.Direction is average at best, shoddy at worst.But, at least Batman fanboys got what they wanted.

Eight years after the infamous abomination Batman & Robin that killed the Batman franchise, Christopher Nolan stepped in and started a whole new series a darker (even darker than the first two Tim Burton Batman movies) and realistic level. Now at first, I wasn't mad on Batman Begins because at first I thought it was boring and it took a while to get to the part where Bruce Wayne becomes Batman. But after a while, I loved the film. In fact, it turned out to be my favourite Batman movie even though I really like the first two Batman movies by Tim Burton. I really like how we get to see the origins of Batman like the tragic death of his parents and becoming a martial arts expert in somewhere in Asia. Also I think it's clever how they made Batman act like a ninja than a superhero. Christian Bale is really good and intimidating as Batman but I think he's not as good as Michael Keaton's Batman. But also I think the rest of the cast did very well like Katie Holmes, Liam Neeson, Michael Caine and Cillian Murphy. But I can't understand why Katie Holmes was nominated for a Razzie for Worst Supporting Actress. I liked her as Rachel and she was a lot better than Maggie Gyllenhaal; not to mention better-looking. It's too bad The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises weren't as great as Batman Begins. I mean I think The Dark Knight is really overrated. I mean most people seem to be overglorifying it just because of Heath Ledger's performance as the Joker and his death. But The Dark Knight Rises was brilliant and gave a nice ending to the trilogy but I don't think it wasn't as fresh as Batman Begins. By the way, happy birthday to the creator of Batman, the late Bob Kane!

Finally, after the previous 2 outings of the caped crusader, the Batman franchise is back on track. Having been a big comic collector over the years and a long time fan of the Dark Knight, I was especially disappointed by 'Forever' and 'Batman and Robin'. To me, these film lost the essence of what drives Bruce Wayne to do what he does and turned Batman into more of a pop star than misunderstood hero.Thankfully though, Nolan has gone back to the roots of the character, portraying a confused and angry Bruce Wayne, who ultimately rises to become Gotham's greatest champion. Don't expect to see loads of shots of Batman in this film though. It is the story of Wayne and focuses mainly on his years of training and preparation for becoming Batman. You are almost teased throughout the first half of the movie, waiting to see the excellent Christian Bale in the costume, as it keeps holding back to keep you in anticipation. When Batman does finally turn up on screen, it is well worth the wait. In my opinion, Bale was born for this role and for the first time when watching a Batman film, I enjoyed the scenes of Wayne being Wayne as much as Wayne being Batman.One of the strongest features of the film, is the way that it manges to suck you in believe that a 'Batman' could be a reality one day. The technology is current, with no use of silly OTT weapons and gadgets, again making the film work by today's standards. Plus, we are not allowed to forget that Batman is still just a man under the costume and there are times when he gets a bit of a kicking and shows that he can be vulnerable too, something we sometimes forget when watching a superhero flick. Gone too, are the silly villains!!! Jack Nicholson was the perfect Joker but from there it went downhill. Thankfully, in this movie the bad guys are actually fairly 'normal' and manage to be menacing at the same time.Which finally brings me to the cast. I always had high expectations for this film when the cast was announced. Let's face it, what a line up! Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, Liam Neeson, Katy Holmes, Ken Watanabe and Tom Wilkinson are not to be sniffed at. Even an old favourite of mine makes an appearance: Rutger Hauer! Awesome. Actors of this calibre would never have gotten involved in this project if they didn't have faith in Christoper Nolan's talents and thankfully they took the leap...For the comic book fans out there, waiting to see this movie, let me assure you that you won't be upset. Imagine the darkness of the 'A Death In The Family' and the 'Year One' story lines. I have never met a fan of Batman who didn't love these books. Well, this is the kind of Batman you can expect from Bale: Dark, brooding and tortured by his past, yet the hero we have come to love. For those of you who are not comic fans, then just look forward to seeing how Batman should be. This film is a credit to Bob Kane's original vision and a testament to all the talented artists and writers who keep the legend of the Dark Knight alive in the comic books today....Thank you Mr. Nolan and thank you Mr. Bale. In fact thanks to everyone who worked on this film. Batman finally Begins from here....

Batman Begins was a massive breath of fresh air when it came out in 2005. Coming 8 years after Warner Brothers jumped the bat, as it were, with Joel Schumacher's childish mess, "Batman and Robin", Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins brought a maturity and seriousness to The Caped Crusader that had been absent since Tim Burton left the world of Gotham. While Batman Begins might not boast the visual prowess or rich villains of Burton's two Batman movies, it fleshed out the character of Bruce Wayne in a way no movie has since.Batman Begins is an origin story straight through, detailing Bruce Wayne's (Christian Bale) emergence from tragically scarred child to a symbol of heroism and darkness. After training with Ra's al Ghul and the League of Shadows, Bruce Wayne returns to Gotham in perfect mental and physical shape. What Nolan and screenwriter David Goyer do perfectly here, is inject Bruce Wayne with an emotion never before seen in a Batman movie. You can feel the pain and grief Wayne is experiencing and you can see why he decides to become a living symbol of good. The first full origin story for Batman on film, Batman Begins is very much told from Bruce's point of view. Earlier Batman movies often focused more heavily on developing the villains, leaving Bruce Wayne in the shadows. The approach that keeps Batman a dark, mysterious figure is a valiant one, and it makes sense. However, context rarely hurts, and Batman Begins provides the character with heaps of context. You can clearly understand the emotions and motivations of the man behind the mask. The origin is also utterly believable. You can see why Bruce Wayne dresses like a bat, why he needs a cape, how he gets a super-car and super-gadgets, and why he hides in a cave. Does it strip Batman of his mythic status? Yes, a bit. Luckily, unlike Nolan's two follow-ups, Begins doesn't get too carried away with realism, retaining a comic book style that its successor would forget.While it does take a while for Bruce Wayne to fully become the bat, it is worth it. Once Bruce Wayne finally dons the cape and cowl, there are a few jaw-dropping action scenes including a brilliant batmobile chase scene and a thrilling climax on Gotham's elevated trains. The atmosphere and feeling of Gotham City is nearly perfect in it's own way. It does not have the Gothic beauty of Tim Burton's Batman universe, but it's blend of comic book dinginess and contemporary sleekness makes Gotham a terrifically realized cityscape. The city feels like what a comic book world would be like if it actually existed. Batman himself is a dark, brooding, wonderfully realized character in his own right and he shares the screen with an ensemble of great actors. Michael Caine as Alfred, Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, and Gary Oldman as Commissioner Gordon are standouts in an ensemble cast that is playing the comic book material straight as an arrow. Cillian Murphy as the Scarecrow is an excellent but criminally underused baddie, but on the whole, the supporting cast elevates the material.Batman Begins is still as fresh today as it was more than a decade ago. The origin of Batman is engaging, engrossing, and emotional. The story provides a context to the Bruce Wayne character that elevates the movie beyond its fun comic book plot. The origin is a satisfying and believable one, and once Batman finally enters the scene, the action is unmatched. Batman Begins is a strong, confident summer superhero blockbuster with more maturity and emotional truth than most dramas. I hesitate to call it the definitive interpretation of Batman (Batman 1989 takes that title), but Batman Begins is the best of Christopher Nolan's Batman movies, a film that balances gritty realism, human drama, and thrilling comic book fun.85/100

To start off this review I'd like to go back to the original batman series. Adam West hammed it up in what has to be the campest yet enjoyable version of batman. It was cheesy, it had the POW, WHACK, KABOOM, very very tongue-in-cheek which, brings me to my next point, is what batman eventually became. Batman, featuring Michael Keaton was a good film, keaton was a good batman, he portrayed the dark knight to a whole new army of fans, a darker batman, less camp, plus with a villain such as Jack Nicholson (turning in another great performance) as the Joker it was win win. Where from there? A sequel, Keaton yet again, Batman Returns, not as good as its predecessor but still a thoroughly enjoyable film with the villains being Penguin (Devito) and Catwoman (Pfeiffer) adding something different to the batman series. All is going well, then things start to go sour. Keaton is gone and in comes Kilmer who has to be the most wooden Batman ever, in come the clichés, the tongue in cheek one-liners and so on but Batman still has some credibility until, dare I mention it, Batman & Robin. This ruined the Batman series with Clooney just being the eye-candy for the ladies, the addition of Batgirl (oh dear Lord) and the villains just coming out with the most tongue-in-cheek one liners ever, example Mr Freeze "You're not sending me to the cooler", wrong, oh so wrong. Something had to be done and this was Batman Begins. This film rescues the Batman series single-handedly, it's a shame it didn't start off this way as it might not of died on it's rear. Bale is an inspired choice as Batman bringing a more serious side to Batman, the story is well paced, it's not all talk or just mind-numbing action, it actually keeps you gripped as you want to find more about Bruce Wayne's past. The only reason it misses out on a 10 is the quite pitiful bad guy scarecrow If you've not seen it I don't want to give too much away about the story but throw away all your perceptions about Batman because Batman is back and Batman has truly begun. D-man.

To tell the truth, I thought the Batman franchise could never be saved, and I was really let down that I may never see my favorite superhero in a good movie ever again. Then I saw the preview to Batman Begins, I didn't really know what to think. New Batman. New Alfred. New story. New style. I wasn't sure why I wanted it 'the old way', but maybe I wanted to the actors in the Batman films I grew up with, to revive themselves and make a good Batman movie. I wanted Robin and sadly, Batgirl, alongside Batman saving the world from another familiar villain.I heard Batman Begins, and I thought great, this was called "Batman" in 1989, selfishly I said, "I want something new!".But, of course being a big Batman fan, I went opening night to Begings. 2 and half hours later, like the rest of the audience was completely blown away. It was the only movie I had ever been to (and yes I have been to some great ones) where the crowd claps and the end. This was not just golf claps for a popcorn clip, this was a standing ovation for 10:30 pm show in a crowded theater in Austin, Texas.I never would have thought this would have worked, even with Nolan directing. But I was wrong, so wrong. After seeing the X-Mens and Spidermans, I clearly thought Marvel had the upperhand and DC was just simply trying to keep up, again, so wrong.Nolan gave us a dark, gritty, and pleasantly realistic, view of Batman. Bale gives a tremendous performance as both Batman and Bruce Wayne. Michael Caine was a fabulous Alfred, and Morgan Freeman almost stole the show as Luscious Fox.Even though X-Men and Spiderman(all of them) are wonderful superhero movies, Batman Begins, is just a good, no, great movie. And I think that is what blew people away, that it wasn't just some superhero, special effect, hero gets girl, good guy wins movie, it was a truly dark and well crafted movie, and it maybe stupid to say, but it didn't even feel like you were watching a superhero movie.I don't even think Burton, and his animated style(which works), could have revived this troubled series, that Schumaker wrecked, because like Fantastic Four and Daredevil, tried over do it and give us the latter part of things.So, here is to you Chris Nolan. You saved a franchise. You made an unforgettable movie, that will be remembered as the best superhero movie of all time, but just an all around great and unforgettable movie classic.

It sickened me in the past to see the Batman movie franchise slowly digging it's way to an early grave. After the quality Tim Burton films, the series pretty much went down the toilet, beginning a horrifically campy age of 'Bat credit-cards' and an armored Arnold Schwarzenegger tossing cringe-worthy puns at a Batman who seemed to be trying not to be embarrassed by the fact that his costume had nipples. So what could Warner Brothers producers hope to do to resurrect the franchise? Pretend it never happened, and start the whole series over again with a talented director, compelling story and capable cast. Enter Christopher Nolan, the mastermind behind 2000's 'Momento', widely praised as one of the most innovative films of the decade. As director/co- screenwriter, Nolan creates a richly dark, atmospheric world for Batman to inhabit, similar to that of the Burton films, but less cartoony. The film's screenplay, written by Nolan and David S. Goyer is quality stuff, it's true that some of the dialog exchanges can seem kind of contrived, particularly between Wayne and Liam Neeson's character, Ducard, but it sounds so classy you tend not to care. Nolan also puts a lot of trust in his audiences to stay put while the first hour of the film comprehensively explores Bruce Wayne's backstory, with no cape donning and few fight sequences. Nevertheless, the pace never slows, and the story is so unexpected and fascinating (who would have expected a Batman film to begin in a prison in Tibet? only Nolan could pull it off!) there's little chance of us losing interest. And this way, we really get a sense of who Bruce Wayne is, a trait none of the past movies were able to capture, including the Burton films. We see what drives him, what leads him to become this iconic crime fighter, and the reasoning behind the mask.Of course, to help the audience get under Bruce Wayne's skin, it doesn't hurt to have such a talented lead as Christian Bale. Bale has been emerging as one of the most talented actors of his generation, and he brings that talent to a peak here, playing the darkest of all superheroes. If you were to break down the role of Batman/Bruce Wayne, you would find that it is essentially three characters: Wayne as Batman, behind the mask; Wayne's public facade as the billionaire playboy; and the real, brooding Bruce Wayne. Bale plays all three of the characters to absolute perfection, and molds them together well enough to make it clear to show they are still the same person. He has been given tons of accolades for his performance already, and needless to say, he deserves every one.And the sheer quality of the supporting cast is mind-boggling, if for the number of big names only. It's very hard to find a weak spot in the incredibly strong array of performances here, but if one had to be found, it would have to be Katie Holmes. It's not that she gives a bad performance, on the contrary, but just she seems too young to be convincing as a district attorney. For me, Michael Gough will always be the definitive Alfred, but Michael Caine does an excellent job of taking over the role, giving a very strong (and often funny) performance. Liam Neeson is sheer class as Ducard, Wayne's mysterious mentor, as is Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, Wayne's arms manufacturer and provider of the Batman gear. It's wonderful to see the incredibly talented and much underrated Gary Oldman as Sgt. Gordon, the only decent cop in Gotham, and he truly makes the role his own. Even cult favorite Rutger Hauer makes an appearance as Richard Earle, the ambitious head of Wayne Enterprises. And (surprise surprise!) the villains are also actually menacing for once, as opposed to cartoony and corny. Cillian Murphy just about walks away with the show as the truly chilling Scarecrow (the sequences involving his 'fear gas' are surprisingly frightening) Ken Watanabe is mysterious and creepy as guild leader Ra's Al Ghul and Tom Wilkinson is very convincing as Carmine Falcone, head of the Gotham city mob. Nolan's knack for realism also comes as a breath of fresh air in this age of CGI bloated blockbusters - there are next to no computer generated shots in the movie, even a sequence with Batman standing on top of a high building staring down at the city was filmed with a stuntman. And it really works, the Batmobile actually interacts with it's environment, and looks so much better real than computer generated. But don't think that the film will come across as too serious and stuffy because of Nolan's realism - true, Gotham seems too dark and dirty to come across as a fantasy world, but Batman Begins retains that unmistakable sense of fun that seems to only be present in comic book movies. We jeer and fear the villains, and cheer the hero as he lays his life on the line to vanquish evil and save the city. And that is how it should be. There's even a surprising twist near the end, which is doubly surprising because it actually comes as a shock. What's not to love here?(and, further cudos to director Nolan for finally managing to make a swarm of bats actually frightening for once)Overall, I'd have to label Batman Begins 'The must see movie of the summer' - it's a well written, authoritatively directed, impeccably acted (especially by Bale's powerhouse lead performance and Cillian Murphy's sickly menacing Scarecrow) and very high quality production. Indeed, most other summer blockbusters could learn a thing or two from Batman Begins. If the Batman franchise died under it's own gaudiness years ago, let us rejoice this glorious rebirth - Batman truly does begin here.-10/10

Christopher Nolan (and cast) have pulled off what I hadn't dared to dream - a Batman every bit as good as Burton/Keaton's vision - and eradicated the camp, feverish memories of Clooney, Kilmer and (cough..) O'Donnell.The story is as good an origin story as you'll find - covering all the major (true-to-the-comic) events, and not wasting ages on them. We see Wayne's all-important training period (previously ignored), and his connection to the Tibetan shadow-ninja clan led by Ra's Al Ghul. We see Bruce come up with ideas for his symbol, his costume, his gadgets, his car, his cave - IT ALL FITS SO PERFECTLY.That's not all - Liam Neeson is perfect (as ever, when Lucas isn't writing his lines), Batman's first mad nemesis (the Scarecrow) is genuinely frightening; with some outstandingly scary 'fear' effects.. Gary Oldman looks just like a young Commissioner Gordon (and doesn't dominate), Morgan Freeman and Rutger Hauer give solid heavyweight support to the boardroom machinations at Wayne Enterprizes. I love Michael Gough(?) but Michael Caine is great as Alfred. It's only Katie Holmes who didn't ring true for me - not because of her performance, but simply because she looks all of 15 years old (sorry Katie). I am always blown away by Christian Bale, and this is no exception.The fights are great, the Bat-gadgets all there, the car is amazing, the plot is thorough and exciting, Gotham looks great, Batman really is frightening & menacing (and lethal!).. And the scenes with the bats themselves FINALLY get across the idea of how scary they can be.There is some humour, but it's fairly dry. The soundtrack, like all the best original soundtracks, is excellent - you hardly know it's there, but the emotions of the scene are enhanced and boosted. For the most part this is a serious Batman film, with plenty for long-time fans. This NEW Batman is one I'd like to see again. Bravo Mr Nolan, bravo.

I had fearful reservations about this one. I loved Tim Burton's Batman - 12 years old when it came out I was the perfect age for it and I also enjoyed Batman Returns. The franchise went so wrong under Joel Schumacher that I wasn't sure I wanted it resurrected. Not least because Batman was one of the few comics I read and enjoyed as a kid and was always my favourite superhero. I grew up reading the comics, watching reruns of the Adam West TV show and then getting Burton's celluloid vision. I was spoilt for choice as a kid but as an adult now I was concerned revisiting the franchise, especially given Warner's record over the last decade of screwing up summer blockbusters with potential all over the place (dare I bring up the Matrix sequels?)However, I am pleased to report I could not have been more wrong about how great Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins is. This is better than Burton. Sacrilege, you say?! Well Burton was still cartoony in many elements, he wasn't churning out the bilge of Schumacher but Burton's Batman was still over the top. As a kid this was ideal but Nolan's Batman is real. Everything in this world seems plausible and it is therefore a world that draws you in. Characters' vulnerability is that much more present. Every bruise, every scare, every concern, every emotion seems real.Part of this is that Nolan has assembled an exemplary cast. Again, this concerned me prior to seeing the film. I wasn't sure a cast of big name legends like Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman and well known names like Liam Neeson and Katie Holmes wouldn't detract and distract from Batman. I was always sure Christian Bale could be the great moody Batman he's been waiting his career to be but the others I wasn't so sure about.That said Bale is not just good, he's superb. I never thought I'd really be able to envision anyone other than Michael Keaton as the definitive Batman for me but since seeing Batman Begins a couple of days ago Bale has cemented himself in the position. Perhaps Keaton will now be able to escape the spectre of Batman he hasn't truly shaken off for 13 years.The rest of the cast is also pitch perfect. Cillian Murphy is creepy as hell, Liam Neeson is authoritative and imposing, Katie Holmes is strong and sexy (I particularly thought she'd be insipid, she should jettison Tom Cruise and let her talent - which she does have naysayers just watch Pieces Of April - speak for itself) and Michael Caine is an Alfred you've never seen but in fact far more likely as a butler than the aristocratic pomp with which he is usually portrayed. Gary Oldman is also superb in a rare wholly decent character for him as Lieutenant Jim Gordon who gets far more to so here than Gordon has ever had to do before. Only Tom Wilkinson is a little off with a slightly comedic wise-guy American accent that never really convinces.The emotional bond between Bruce Wayne and Alfred is actually a wonderful human heart to the film than Nolan and Goyer have written perfectly.Don't let that make you think the action is not front and centre though. From Wayne's training through the early stages of the film to his early missions as Batman at about the half way point to a thrillingly choreographed chase sequence and an edge of your seat finale this film delivers the cool quotient in bucket loads.Great villains (especially Murphy), great story, great cast, great action... put simply, great film. Probably the best comic-book movie ever made (that's excluding the genius Sin City which I consider a moving comic-book rather than a comic-book movie, that will never be bettered but Batman is a different beast and the best of its kind).

A young Bruce Wayne watches in horror, as his parents are killed in front of him, later in life, he vows to remove the criminal element from Gotham City.A word on Christopher Nolan first, I am a huge fan, I think of Inception, Dunkirk and Interstellar, but his magical trio of Batman movies began here, a movie that put the franchise back on top.I'm not always sold on origins movies, there have been several misfires, this is one of, if not the best, it feels very organic, at no point does it try too hard, or overdo it, the balance between story, introduction, action and character, pretty much perfect.The Cinematography is incredible almost twenty years on, the choreography, fight scenes look terrific, made at a time where the purpose of the music was to assist the film and not to drown it out, it is also excellent.Christian Bale was perfect casting, one of the best actors in the business, he is first rate, the balance between Bruce Wayne and Batman is spot on, what a skilled actor he is.An incredible supporting cast, Cillian Murphy is equally as good as Bale, putting in a fiendishly creepy and sinister performance as Crane, Freeman, Caine, Neeson, Oldman, I don't think it could have gotten any better than this.Fantastic, 10/10.

I got a chance to see 'Batman Begins' just this past Friday evening. I must say that before seeing the film, I felt in my heart this is the 'Batman' film we've been waiting for. Within ten minutes into the movie, I turned to my date and said to her, "This is it! This is the movie!" I just can't believe that after all these years, Warner Bros. finally got it right. For me the most intriguing part of the film, apart from the great script, and great acting, was Christopher Nolan's decision to base the film in reality. Deciding that Batman could really exist in our universe and our world was a stroke of genius. Another aspect of the film that's so refreshing is that instead of the focus being on the villain, Batman is the film's star. And rightly so. It's amazing what can happen when a studio leaves a respected director, and the creative team alone, and allow them to make the best movie possible. The only two negatives that I can think of is Katie Holmes and the fight sequences. Holmes does indeed look like a teenager playing grown-up. Her performance isn't bad per SE, it's just that you really don't buy her as an Assistant D.A. As for the fight sequences, I felt the cameras angles were too tight on the action, edited too quickly, and lit too dark so that you really couldn't tell what was going on and determine who was hitting who. Maybe we can attribute this to the fact that Nolan is not an action director. Hopefully the next film will open up the fight sequences so we can actually see Batman use the martial arts skills he developed during his exile. But apart from those relatively minor quibbles, the film is excellent, and I'm definitely going back on opening day June 15th, and seeing it a second time. A third and fourth viewing is definitely not out of the question.

Batman Begins is a well told story of the origin of Bruce Wayne/Batman (Christian Bale). It covers a lot of the same ground as Michael Keaton's original Batman, but goes much further in depth in many factors of his creation. It goes into great detail about subjects such as how he got his costume, what exactly it is. Same goes with the Batmobile. We also find out why he chose to be bat-like.One of the more interesting aspects here is how it shows Bruce's father, Thomas Wayne (Linus Roache), and how he molded Bruce's life and instilled good judgment within him, a point which is misunderstood about him by most people he comes in contact with. Thomas, too, teaches Bruce valuable lesson, such as "We fall so we can learn to pick ourselves up". This is pretty close to the theme of the movie or motto Bruce Wayne lives by. The resemblance of the father & son is pretty good, too.I also thoroughly enjoyed the training Bruce Wayne endured becoming "invincible". Bruce is trained by Ducard (Liam Neeson) in many ways like a ninja (The concept of Batman IS similar to a ninja). He is taught many valuable lessons in this temple and is shown no mercy. Eventually, we even see his first real enemy as a superhero/vigilante.Although I am not positive as to how true to the comic book this movie is, I am sure it took a few liberties, as did Spider-Man. Most of the small examples I have noticed are for the better and make for a good story. The Batmobile is more believable as an expensive armored vehicle that the military would not spend the money on than a juiced up Corvette (or whatever that was). Same with the Batsuit.Katie Holmes is excellent as Rachel Dawes, a D.A. who is not afraid to go after the big villains in court. Also worthy of mentioning is Michael Caine as Alfred the butler. I do not believe they could have found a better man for that role, although I could not get the image of Caine as Austin Powers' dad out of my head when he was on screen.Finally, in my opinion, Christian Bale makes a much better Batman than the three recent previous ones in Michael Keaton, Val Kilmer and George Clooney. Something about him makes Batman darker and more mysterious. Hopefully, DC Comics and movies have learned from their mistakes and we will not have to worry about Batman picking up a sidekick in this newest installment of the Batman series. 9/10

It had some original stuff that displayed intelligence and thought with regards to his suit, car and weaponry. It did try to dwell on Bruce a lot more and convey some of his darkness but I found towards the end it became very Hollywood-ised. Sometimes filmmakers try to over complicate things and this was a good example.I don't know why they can't have a simple bad guy with a simple plan, why do they have to be so elaborate a plot leaving a growing feeling of inevitability that by the end there will be some big explosions, building destruction, lots of flashing lights and Batman will prevail.The inability of seeing the fighting was immensely frustrating. I don't think I saw him actually land a single punch. It seems a fight scene would be imminent and the makers would speed up the camera, ramp up the bass on the sound, scatter the scene with crunching thuds and smacks but then forget to actually choreograph a fight. Maybe believing that if we heard the thuds and saw some activity on the screen that the audience would imagine the rest and think 'wow, what a scene'. I'd much rather have two or three clearly thrown punches or kicks than 1-2 minutes of whirling cape, bangs and crashes and people falling to the ground.It's a shame that they re-launch the franchise in a blaze of 'this is going to be darker and different' which it certainly starts off doing before descending a little bit into Hollywood banality. Why not have the courage to really shake things up, have the bravery to maybe end it badly (taking T3's lead) or just not conform to the normal formula.Showed promise, had some clever stuff and made more of an effort than some in the franchise but still nothing to rival Batman:Mask of the Phantasm as the best batman ever made in my opinion.

Batman redone. It gives us a new origin of Batman (Christian Bale) and how he got his powers and such. He still plays playboy Bruce Wayne while fighting evil as Batman. His first two villains are the Scarecrow (Cillain Murphy) who produces intense fear in his victim with a gas and Ra's Al Ghul--who trained Batman and knows ALL his weaknesses.OK--it's MUCH better then Tim Burton's dreadful movies but I still wasn't too impressed. I didn't like the new origin at all and it's a full hour before Batman even shows up! It does have good parts--Bale is dead on perfect as Bruce Wayne AND Batman. He also pumped up for the role (we have at least two shirtless scenes). It LOOKS great (if very dark) and it has elaborate special effects left and right (with tons of explosions thrown in too). But I was mostly bored. The training sequence at the beginning just went on endlessly--it was more like The Shadow's origin than Batmans. Also this movie was WAY too heavy on darkness and atmosphere. At one point it was raining and I noticed nobody in Gotham pulled in their clothes from their lines. This isn't nit picking but obviously it was all out there to add an "atmosphere" to the scene. Also when you find yourself worrying about little things like that the movie just isn't doing its job (i.e. entertaining you). However Batman's costume, the Batcave and the Batmobile are all explained pretty logically.Acting varies--Bale was just great. Michael Caine (as Alfred) matched him. Even Katie Holmes (a limited actress) was good--too bad she won't be in the sequel (this inexplicable romance/marriage with Tom Cruise is destroying her career). Laim Neeson was very dull as a teacher--he appeared to be drugged out. Gary Olman was (suprisingly) terrible as Jim Gordon--he seems VERY unsure of how to play the role. But Rutger Hauer, Linus Roache (who bears an uncanny resemblance to Bale) and Morgan Freeman were all great.To be totally honest I looked at my watch more than once. I couldn't wait for this thing to get over. All the praise this is getting is beyond me. I give it a 7--and that's mostly for the acting.

I feel like I'm always one of those people who rolls their eyes when someone says "Christopher Nolan is such a great filmmaker". Sometimes I feel like I'm being a bit mean. Nolan is an acclaimed director because of his vision for big blockbusters that are shot and film and rely on the spectacle of real sets and performances. Nolan exceeds well at what he tries to do, and its a sort of achievement that no director has accomplished. Personally, I don't love his style - it relies more on impressive setpieces then the language of film. But it mostly works. Yet I find this movies to be exactly what Christopher Nolan should not be directing - a fantasy. Because of his vision, and the conflicting interests with this story, I find Batman Begins to be an overlong, drab and rather than unengaging affair.Firstly lets start off with the story. I simply don't like this story at all. The stories of each of the movies in the Dark Knight trilogy are very loosely based on Year One, Long Halloween and The Dark Knight Returns respectively. I haven't read Year One, but Long Haloween and Dark Knight Returns I know are fantastic - and very different to their movie counterparts. So I won't blame the scripts fault on the source material. The problem with this movie to me is how quickly the events of this movie occur. In essence, Bruce Wayne changes from a boy, to a ninja, to the batman in relatively short time. So this exciting arc of Bruce Wayne becoming the Batman is lost immediately. In fact a significant problem with this movie is that it really isn't about Batman becoming Batman. It's more like "this is what Batman would do to become a hero". There needs to be a story about him becoming the figure of batman, maybe learning not to murder or become a better vigilante. Yet halfway through this movie he knows what hes doing. The central conflict, that being Batman to become a hero, is kinda mute and as such there isn't much of a thread to hold us onto the story other than "Batman needs to stop bad guy".And that's another thing - too many antagonists. I feel like no one brings this up, but there are essentially three antagonists in this movie - Carmine Falcone, Scarecrow, and Ra's Al Ghul. And they aren't really teaming up together - each antagonist gets set up, only to be foiled onto the next villain. If there was a constant driving villain as there was in the Dark Knight, this wouldnt be a problem. However Ra's Al Ghul, who is essentially the Big Bad, isn't established as a villain until the very last half hour. By that point the movie has failed to really connext with me with an opposition. So to me there becomes no real arc for batman and no real threat for the entire movie. As such, I don't really have much to connect with this character.There's also the style of Nolan. One of the criticisms I have with Nolan is that scenes kinda blend together, so that there is rarely "that scene" in a Nolan movie - its more an event that occurs in a movie. In some movies it works, but in this movie because I'm not particularly invested in the characters I don't care. It's a sort of thing you need to do in a fantasy. In real life things don't just suddenly start - in the Dark Knight for example you might have a quick little scene with Joker and Gambol because it brings a level of realism. You're not seeing the Joker comically do something for four minutes as a normal scene. Yet in a fantasy world you need that. You need, for example a four minute scene where the Scarecrow's character is introduced. You need a scene where the city is established (as a fantasy city). When you go into realism it makes sense not to sort of overemphasise or exaggerate the world. Yet Batman Begins is a more fantastical story - it surrounds a group of seemingly magical ninjas, a really poorly designed and unrealistic city and a plot in which fear gas is going to be put into the water. To me this is at conflict with Nolan's vision. It would be like making a realistic version of star wars - you can make this movie dark, but it becomes difficult for me to assume this world as ultra realistic. I can't accept these characters but only as the works of fiction, and thus the movies can't try to trick me.It's also of note that this movie is just very poorly helmed when compared to Nolan's future work. As an action director I don't think Nolan is actually that great. In this movie the action is a lot of shaky cam and quick cuts to give the illusion (very poor illusion) that action is occurring. Along with that there is no real sort of danger for Batman. He perfectly rides his Batmobile and fights with precision. But this is a learner, I guy who hasn't properly mastered being a hero. An action movie needs the hero to be endangered, especially when there is otherwise no direct threat. Thre is none here, and as such I find this to be boring.

A plunge into the depths creates real fear, as out of darkness swarming beasts cause to appear, later at, the opera, you start to tremble, shake and cower, leads to an exit, where the price is quite severe. Some years later and a journey is begun, from the light into the shadows where you run, as Ra's al Ghul becomes mentor, or is he just, a tormentor, the cycle closes, returning to the forsaken. A new friend is made and doors begin to slide, finding technologies, to halt and stop the tide, tools to fight, the criminals, mobsters without principles, a winged vigilante, in Gotham City, now resides.

I've just come back from a preview screening of Batman Begins. I went in with low expectations, despite the excellence of Christopher Nolan's previous efforts. Talk about having your expectations confounded! This film grips like wet rope from the start. I won't give away any of the story; suffice to say it mixes and matches its sources freely, tossing in a dash of Frank Miller, a bit of Alan Moore and a pinch of Bob Kane to great effect. What's impressive is that despite the weight of the franchise, Nolan has managed to work so many of his trademarks into a mainstream movie. The story does not progress in linear fashion for the first half, and there are some truly spectacular hallucination scenes. Parents thinking of taking their young kids along, think twice. When we left, a terrified 8-year-old boy was being comforted by his parents. Some of what's up there on screen really is the stuff of nightmares.Of the cast of Brits chosen to bring this American tale to the masses, Christian Bale convinces in his dual role, while Michael Caine as Alfred comes up with the humour just when the film is in danger of taking itself too seriously. Gary Oldman and Tom Wilkinson provide able support, as does Morgan Freeman. Most refreshing of all is the way that Nolan and co have come up with a way of bringing comics to the screen that does justice to the often adult source material in a way that, say, Daredevil, tried and failed to do (although the director's cut is better). If the Dark Knight doesn't return after this, there's no justice.

This film easily trumps any live-action incarnation we've scene of the Dark Knight before, borrowing heavily from both the comics and the Dini and Co. animated series. This is a hard, fast, driving, heartfelt epic that draws you into the character of Bruce Wayne and makes you damn well care. Batman doesn't play second-fiddle to the villains here like in the other films. It's his movie and that's the way it should be.Much has been said of the film's "reality" quotient, and I'm here to say it works. Nolan talks about how Batman's strong because he does push-ups, he gets around because of his gadgets, and by introducing each of them with a plausible explanation, we forget to quibble and go along with it. The technology may be fantastic, but it's believable. And, unlike the "reality" of something like Daredevil, Nolan doesn't forget his ideals halfway though and start having Batman wire-jump thirty feet into the air.

I just came back from a special screening of Batman Begins and I must say this is the best movie I have yet seen this year. All of the blockbuster movies I had seen this year with much expectation have been disappointing. But Batman Begins is not the typical corny action film; it incorporates all aspects of genre: action, fantasy, drama, and even comedy. I was at the edge of my seat from the thrills in some scenes and clapping & laughing from the humorous lines that director Christopher Nolan had written for the characters. I was really amazed by the acting performances from the new generation of actors, assuming that they wouldn't have been able to compete with and compliment the talented, veteran actors such as Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman, and Liam Neeson. I mean you couldn't have asked for better actors!! Christian Bale was just perfect for the role: he had the intensity, physique, and charm you'd expect a Batman character to encompass. Every actor was casted perfectly for their roles. I even give props to Katie Holmes for playing a district attorney considering her previous roles consisted of "the young girl" or "girlfriend". I hardly ever see action films nowadays because I don't want to waste my time watching a conventional, corny, over-digitalized,plot less film. To be honest, I gave this film a chance not because it was a Batman movie, but rather because of the talented veteran actors as well as being a fan of Christopher Nolan's previous films. Whether you're a fan of Christopher Nolan or just a Batman fanatic, you'll enjoy every single second of the movie. People of ALL ages will appreciate this film. The violence in this movie is not vulgar, but rather sends out a lot of great messages of loyalty, respect, and humility. Not only is "Batman Begins" the best of the Batman series, it is the most unconventional. This recommendation is coming from a person who mostly watches art-house/independent films.

BATMAN BEGINS lives up to what I heard about it being a "darker" version, with much less reliance on flippant one-liners or gags, the result being a more realistic feel for what might have been.From the very start, there is a nice chemistry between Alfred, the butler (superbly played by Michael Caine) and Bruce Wayne (excellent job by Christian Bale). The humor is of the gentle kind, almost subtle in its implications, and it sets the stage for the more realistic flow of events to follow. There's a pulsating background score by Hans Zimmer and John Newton Howard that races along with the film, punctuating it in just the right places, at just the right moments, to give a vigorous punch to the action scenes. And there are plenty of them.But the quieter moments are all extremely well played and given depth by real characterizations--not just cartoonish figures. There is depth in all of the performances with the possible exception of Katie Holmes, an actress who speaks in a voice barely above a whisper and fails to project the belief that she is an assistant district attorney. Miss Holmes needs lessons in projecting her voice.Looming over the landscape is Liam Neeson, a distinguished actor who excels in his carefully concealed villainy. He is a force to be reckoned with and displays all of his versatility here. Equally effective in lesser roles are Morgan Freeman, Rutger Hauer as the Board Chairman that Bruce Wayne ultimately replaces, and Gary Oldman.The story is forcefully presented with magnificent visuals and eye-popping sets that all have a realistic gleam and are yet stylized enough to give credence to the fact that this is all based on a comic strip character.I can't praise Christian Bale enough as the man who dons that mask. He has all the strength and wily intelligence behind his serious good looks and makes the perfect embodiment of the action hero he is portraying. Firm of jaw, direct of gaze, he makes an excellent hero.Praise too for Cillian Murphy, who makes the most of his Scarecrow role behind a mask of creepy blandness, underplaying his role (as most of the others do) so as not to become a caricature, as so often happens in these Batman enterprises. If it's a series of running gags that you expect--as from previous Batmans--you won't find them here. The thrills come one after another, set pieces that are astounding to watch.Well worth the wait. Christopher Nolan has done an excellent job of handling his subject matter with great skill and flourish. Warning note: Perhaps a little too intense for children, but adults are certainly going to appreciate the fact that the real Batman has arrived.

British director Christopher Nolan is better known for his lower-profile thrillers such as the excellent MEMENTO and the brilliant INSOMNIA, but his first big-budget Hollywood blockbuster is still in the same league as the other two: a tremendously inventive and exciting piece of filmmaking, which breathes a whole new life into the Batman saga and proves to be the best film of the series (shame it took till number five to get it right, but that's life). Nolan dispenses with any previous cast or story lines, instead taking Batman back to his roots, and the result is a tough, violent, realistic adventure which isn't marred by any of the comic-book campness or flights of fancy which spoiled the others. Batman is just an ordinary guy here, without any superpowers, but instead his Bond-style gadgets allow him to become the caped crusader by night.The casting is extraordinary and the ensemble all give outstanding performances. Bale is terrific, finally getting some of the acclaim he deserves; I've been watching this guy for a few years now and he's been great in everything I've seen. Caine is cast as Alfred the butler, and supplies genuinely warm comedy and wit. Gary Oldman and Morgan Freeman are friendly allies, although their roles are relatively minor. Katie Holmes is the attractive love interest and she, too, is surprisingly good. However, it's the villains which have the best parts; Liam Neeson has his best role in many years and is fantastic in it, whilst THE LAST SAMURAI's Ken Watanabe is creepy as a cult leader. Cillian Murphy (28 DAYS LATER) is truly memorable as weirdo bad guy The Scarecrow, whilst Tom Wilkinson is almost unrecognisable as a hardline gangster. Even Rutger Hauer is in it, and that's gotta be good, seeing as he's been stuck in DTV movie hell for a decade.The film is long – 2 ½ hours to be precise – but the suspense and action keep it moving. There are car chases, fist fights, massive battles and lots of other stuff going on. The plot keeps you guessing all the way through and there are plenty of surprising twists. My only complaint is that the action is cut too fast, and too close, so that it's pretty hard to see what's happening, but the excellent soundtrack helps make up for that. Still, a minor complaint with what is otherwise a flawless film – let's hope they all team up to make some more classics like this.

We waited for years to get a new and better "Batman" movie than the one we got back in 1997 with "Batman & Robin" which was a complete disaster. This movie is probably the best of all the "Batman" movies to ever be released. Christopher Nolan reinvents this iconic character in the most humane way we have ever seen the character in before. It's also the greatest way we have ever seen. Christian Bale is a very good Batman, but I don't believe in his judgment all the time, taking a scene where he is about to kill a man, but fails when the same man is killed by another assassin. I didn't really get his full emotion in that scene, but he is still very good. Liam Neeson is the best villain for Batman to take on as he inhabits the iconic villain Ra's al Ghul who we all know from the comicbooks. This is a great movie that I can't help but love even more every single time I watch the movie.

BATMAN BEGINS rejuvenates if totally regenerates a film franchise . After Tim Burton's idiosyncratic vision of the comic strip , the film series became very stuck with the Joel Scumacher version . You wouldn't really blame Warner Bros if they'd ended the franchise there and then due the law of diminishing returns .Indeed it might have been seen as something of a risk casting so many big name ( Read expensive ) actors in one movie . The fact that on its first week of release it only entered the top ten weekly box office must have frightened the studio executives , only to have their fears extinguished where the movie rallied strongly spending two weeks at the top followed by several weeks in the top ten Certainly it's a film that reboots everything that's gone before . It tells the early life of Bruce Wayne while never referring to a need for a sidekick in the shape of Robin the boy wonder . Instead we see some one whose life is ripped apart by murder and is later perceived to be let down by the justice system and Bruce Wayne is not someone who will meekly let this go . In effect Bruce Wayne is now written as a comic strip version of an avenging angel along the lines of Travis Bickle /Paul Kerzey / John Eastland and all your other favourite vigilante anti-heroes from cinema Or at least that's what should have happened . Unfortunately after this motivating incident , which also takes in an involving sequence set in a Chinese gulag the film then starts playing out as a Hollywood Summer blockbuster . In many ways it's like the old blockbusters from yesteryear featuring a host star names and highly regarded not so big name character actors all brought together in one film . The great shame is that most of them are given little to do . It's a film that has a plot written around its set pieces and the characters are just as mechanical . They're not characters like people are in real life , they're generic action hero , generic action hero's sister , loyal butler , stand up police chief who is slightly dumb etc etc by actors who could be have been unknowns . This is a great pity for a film whose reputation suggested to me it was going to be much better than a simple Summer blockbuster/franchise movie Christopher Nolan is a good director , though the recent hype with INCEPTION with claims that he's " the greatest director of his generation " might leave him with some baggage . What Nolan has always been good at is editing and continues this with BATMAN BEGINS . The way he inter-cuts scenes is what makes them effective . But at the end of the day it's merely a Summer blockbuster with big names , car chases and the occasional explosion

I thought this movie was absolutely spectacular, I took me by surprise. I never thought I would see a Batman movie with depth and that showed the true fear that is the character Batman that he brings to his enemies. Christian Bale did a excellent job and I truly look forward to him in another Batman Movie! The story was absolutely amazing and in my humble opinion very original. Raj Al Ghul is an excellent villain and to portray him in the way he was portrayed was top notch, not to mention he was played very well. Many people I talked to complained that the actor who played him was not of Asian decent. However I believe it truly didn't matter at all.Not to mention Alfred was great. Gordon (later Commissioner Gordon) was excellent as well.No other Batman Movie has portrayed Batman truly as the Dark Knight and as I said already I truly look forward to more along these lines.-ND

The name of David Goyer among the writing credits made me fear the worse. After all those Zig Zag and Blades appallingness you can hardly blame me. So, you may imagine my surprise to discover that Batman Begins is not only better than the previous Batmans but much better. The genesis of the character as well as inedited insights into the seven mystery years in the life of Bruce Wayne makes the whole enterprise engaging even thrilling. Christian Bale is an American Psycho Batman, pouty lips and unexpected sexual presence. Katie Holmes is lovely, with a sharp intelligence and a riveting imperfect beauty. Michael Caine fills the shoes of the butler with wit and charm. Gary Oldman, looking more Oldman than Gary, adds another surprising characterization to his already impressive gallery. So, very nice. There is still hope in hopeless trends. Who knew.

Bale is unintentionally funny as Batman doing his, now infamous Bat-Voice. More silly than intimidating.The dialogue has all the subtlety of a sledgehammer and is delivered in the most melodramatic way possible.Take a shot every time the word "fear" or variation of it is said. You'll be drunk 30 minutes in.Direction is average at best, shoddy at worst.But, at least Batman fanboys got what they wanted.

Eight years after the infamous abomination Batman & Robin that killed the Batman franchise, Christopher Nolan stepped in and started a whole new series a darker (even darker than the first two Tim Burton Batman movies) and realistic level. Now at first, I wasn't mad on Batman Begins because at first I thought it was boring and it took a while to get to the part where Bruce Wayne becomes Batman. But after a while, I loved the film. In fact, it turned out to be my favourite Batman movie even though I really like the first two Batman movies by Tim Burton. I really like how we get to see the origins of Batman like the tragic death of his parents and becoming a martial arts expert in somewhere in Asia. Also I think it's clever how they made Batman act like a ninja than a superhero. Christian Bale is really good and intimidating as Batman but I think he's not as good as Michael Keaton's Batman. But also I think the rest of the cast did very well like Katie Holmes, Liam Neeson, Michael Caine and Cillian Murphy. But I can't understand why Katie Holmes was nominated for a Razzie for Worst Supporting Actress. I liked her as Rachel and she was a lot better than Maggie Gyllenhaal; not to mention better-looking. It's too bad The Dark Knight and The Dark Knight Rises weren't as great as Batman Begins. I mean I think The Dark Knight is really overrated. I mean most people seem to be overglorifying it just because of Heath Ledger's performance as the Joker and his death. But The Dark Knight Rises was brilliant and gave a nice ending to the trilogy but I don't think it wasn't as fresh as Batman Begins. By the way, happy birthday to the creator of Batman, the late Bob Kane!