I've enjoyed this movie ever since I was a kid and I still do. I also liked Batman forever back then but the real difference is that THIS movie didn't date when I grew up. I did notice a few scenes in this film that didn't make any sense like: 'Hhmm... the crowd is angry. Hey! Where did they get those tomatoes from?' Then I thought: 'who cares? This movie is not 100% serious anyway!'The original Tim Burton Batman was great as well but it was a bit cheesy at some parts and I didn't like all the actors. This movie improved on almost every aspect with a wonderful cast, a more Gothic style and no involvement of Prince. Nowadays, many fans of the Christopher Nolan movies dislike Burton claiming that the Nolan movies are more serious and therefore more loyal to the comics. I don't think this is entirely true: -There has never been an adaptation of the original concept of Batman which was a vengeful criminal killer with a gun. -Batman has taken many forms over the years peeking its silliness in the 60's (and a bit with Batman & Robin). A director is free to choose what kind of Batman he's going to portray as long if it's good.My opinion: Batman doesn't necessarily have to be serious. It's about a man in a rubber suit with pointy ears. Burton managed to create a perfect balance between the silliness and the darkness surrounding the whole idea.I just recently watched the Nolan movies and I love those ones as well (especially The Dark Knight). There's simply something about this movie that interests me more. Nolan's goal was to give the character much more depth and in doing so, he looked for an explanation of nearly every aspect of Batman. That's a bit too much for me, I'm a bigger fan of the more abstract version of Batman. The Burton movies are more theatrical and centered around the atmosphere.My conclusion is that you shouldn't compare the Nolan with the Burton movies. They're just different and it's up to you to decide which one you like better. My respect is for both directors.

Batmust returns is the darkest batman movie to date. With a scary villain, and sneaky hero/villain and the dark knight himself. The penguin brings a dark look to the character. Tim Burton success from the 1st batman brings the success of batman returns, a very good storyline with good actors bringing the characters to life. Burton dark and Gothic scenes gives Gotham the reign of terror look, makes you believe that batman is needed in Gotham. A film that was ahead of it time. The audience of 1992 wasn't ready for this, but as time as gone on the film has become more liked, maybe the downfall of batman forever and batman and robin, everyone seemed to realise then that this film was very good and should of kept Tim Burton as the director. Never the less a brilliant film and 100% must see.

There were a lot of things that were excellent about this movie, like the cinematography and the performances, though it isn't as good as the first film. Michael Keaten is suitably brooding as the Dark Knight, better than George Clooney in Batman and Robin (considered as the worst out the franchise)though he is overshadowed by the villains, namely Danny DeVito as the Penguin, who looked as though he was having a ball, and brought a sense of sadness and grotesquesness to the role. Christopher Walken was effective also as Max Schrek. Stealing the show, with her flawless delivery of not-so special lines, is Michelle Pfeiffer as the sexy and manipulative Catwoman. The film looks lovely, with the sets and effects, and Tim Burton directs with detail. However the film does drag, and while there are some intelligent lines from the villains, the script could have been developed a little more. All in all, a dark and entertaining film. Whereas Batman Forever is funnier and more fast paced, Batman Returns is darker, but just lacks the sophistication of the first film. 8/10 Bethany Cox.

Ah, heres a movie I remember fondly from my childhood. Man I had it all, the toys, the McDonald's happy meal toys (not to mention those cool large plastic McDonald's cups my mom bought me) the sega video game, the trading cards, the t shirts, the batmobile candy dispensers, all kinds of neat merch based on the movie. of course in retrospect, this is not at all a kids movie, despite the fact its batman and was aimed at kids who bought happy meals. but that doesn't mean its not a great movie. not every superhero movie has to cater strictly to the kids. nevertheless, my 6 year old self was too in love with batman to care about how dark it was, I still loved anything and everything having to do with my favorite superhero and I must have watched this movie, along with the other 2 movies (1989 batman and batman forever) a zillion times on video.here's the premise. Batman truly does Return in this sequel to the 1989 mega hit, and this time hes better then ever. hes got some new toys (like the electronic self-targeting Baterang), vehicles and even has 2 new classic villains to contend with.penguin is a classic Tim Burton character in this one, but that can only be a good thing. in this movie, Burton makes the characters very ambiguous. is the penguin really half animal, half human? is cat woman part cat, part woman? these questions never really get answered. personally, i don't believe they are part animal at all. the penguin is all human albeit a VERY deformed and ugly one, and is only called Penguin because of his deformities. Catwoman is always human but the whole "9 lives" thing makes it ambiguous whether she has supernatural powers or whether shes just very lucky. its debatable. Batman is the only normal guy in this. in fact, Keaton being the calm cool hero both as Bruce Wayne and batman, grounds the movie and keeps it together whereas the 2 villains are completely crazy and psychotic nut cases. it seemed Keaton didn't have it all together in the last movie, he had a a lot of demons to fight with, but by the end you got the feeling he found his purpose in life, now that hes got a bat-signal and the law on his side. so naturally, in this one he seems more together and knows what hes doing. its the villains who are not together and have all these obvious mental problems, so much so that they actually make batman look normal. if it was anyone else playing batman, it wouldn't have worked. but Michael Keaton has a unique screen presence that when he puts on the bat suit, he literally IS batman and lets face it, no one before or since has had the manly swagger that Michael Keaton had as batman. he was a bit older, getting some greys, was this sort of gruff everyman but has this seriousness and "normal guy" look that makes you take him seriously as batman. other actors who have played batman seem too pretty boy or hand picked and thus don't feel real. Keaton is like the everyman normal looking 40 year old gruff guy and he demands you take him seriously. this is a very artsy film, compared to its blockbuster brother from 1989, which was basically a cut-&-dry blockbuster action/adventure. but it really didn't have any emotion or depth to it, despite Keaton's sincere efforts. Thats where Returns comes in. all the characters are very interesting and in a way, they all echo Batman. Catwoman is the dark vigilante side of him, while the Penguin shows what Bruce Wayne could have been if he turned bitter against the world. I've heard many ppl say that this batman film is not really about Batman himself, and that too much attention is given to the villains, but i will say again, its not a bad thing, and doesn't ruin this film. batman himself is really not a very interesting character when you think about it. hes essentially a guy who's see's his parents get killed as a kid, he trains for X years, then decides to becomes batman for revenge purposes. OK. thats it. there's no more to it really. certainly not something i want to watch for a whole 2 hours. i really didn't see a point in making a whole movie about his origin a couple years ago, i think it was a waste. i was always kinda hoping they would bring back the Burton style of filmaking for batman movies, or maybe even get Burton back to direct. but alas, we got something that felt like a lesser version of the 1989 film. sad. but hey, we always have the Tim Burton films to enjoy. those, IMO, captured the real batman, beyond the facade of "comic book" movie looks (which, in Burton's case, is actually a good thing). as far as i'm concerned, Burton is the only guy to have directed Batman movies. hes the only one who i believed truly understood batman, as you can see in his various films. the other directors never really...got it. they just don't get batman. they only got him as a character, thats it. but Burton KNEW batman, he understood his plight in life, and the darkness inherent in the material. thats why this is to me, the best, and most personal, Batman film. it shows batman, and his villains, at there most raw. they are all hurt individuals, and thats what makes this film so powerful. this is what a batman film should be. serious, witty, playful, phycological, and DARK. while still retaining the comic book style that we all expect. this film also paved the way for the wonderful Batman: The Animated Series, which also shares Tim Burton's dark, Gothic look and feel from both of his Batman films. it even uses the same theme!

Batman Returns is to be considered quality when one speaks of superhero films. Its predecessor, Batman, in my opinion, is by far the greatest and most well thought out of the comic book genre. For one to say that Batman Returns was disappointing, he or she has not fully watched the movie and considered the acting of Danny Devito as the Penguin. Devito and Walken offer some memorable moments. The tale of Batman is suppose to be dark and Tim Burton has fulfilled how the comic portrays Batman. Batman Returns provides comic relief, action, suspense and fantasy; and it should not be viewed as 'crap', although we are all entitled to our own opinions.

My friends will know I have a mixed opinion of Nolans batman films. Begins was dull, TDK was pretty cool and TDKR....well, we have batman and robin to contend with worst batman movie.I say this as my friends say "the old films are to light hearted" I reply "Go watch batman returns" This film takes influences both from Batman and Burton's film he made just before this, Edward Scissorhands. The latter was Burton's personal favourite film, and for this film, he wanted to bring something new to the table.Batman returns has the Gothic, almost fairy tale like feel of Scissorhands-a dark, twisted fairy tale anyway. This is due to impressive production design, and Danny Elfmans score, which has the choir elements added in for that Burton feel.Keaton returns and once again impresses as batman. He isn't in that much (more than in TDKR though) but he brings a real pressence on screen. He is in my eyes the true Batman. Danny DeVito is the warped penguin and he is a very interesting, if vile, character. A great costume and make up team make him a great villain. Although he is not the crime boss from the comics, the abandoned mutant makes him a more sympathetic villain- only Aaron Eckhart is more sympathetic than penguin in the batman films. Michelle Pfeiffer is the scene stealer here as catwomen. Her demented take on the anti hero is very engaging and she has one of the coolest costumes ever. Finally Christopher Walken appears as corrupt tycoon Max Schrek. He is basically playing himself-which is awesome, as he is Christopher Walken.So we have a strong cast-what about the story? While it's morbid and dark, it's very interesting. Its complex and not realistic but is very powerful-but not uplifting. As for the production, Gotham looks as dark as it will ever look-its mostly set at night. Its a memroble setting, but not comic book-y-more Tim Burton-y. The music gets the tone of the film across very well-Danny Elfman has composed a real gem here.The action however is a bit lackluster-the music holds it together, making it seem more exciting. The biggest problem the film has is that its not a comic book movie-it does change the villains backstories, batman is slightly to immoral and the story doesn't have the simple plots or action to make it a comic book movie. Although its not the best representation of batman or comic book movies, and a disappointment compared to its predecessor, its a great watch if your into the dark worlds of Tim Burton-defiantly the dark knights darkest hour.

The main reason that Batman Returns ranks below its famous predecessor is that it fails to stand on its own. Consider The Dark Knight compared to Batman Begins. The Dark Knight stands on its own. Tim Burton's Batman Returns is definitely a very good movie, but it fails to stand on its own, expand the Batman mythos, or develop the characters.There's still a lot to like in this movie. The three Batman villains have very magnetic performances: Christopher Walken as Shreck, Danny DeVito as the Penguin, and Michelle Pfeiffer as Catwoman. All of them really steal their scenes. Tim Burton's inspiration in the set and costume design is always superb, and he brings his quirky charm to this dark yet campy Batman universe. It's the right blend of fun and tension.The pacing of the movie is a little off, some dialogue corny, some of the innuendos a little uncomfortable, but this film rises above all that with great performances, great action, a fantastic score, memorable characters, and a great Batman movie. If you like Batman (1989), this is a good follow-up that doesn't quite match the original.

Batman Returns is a perfect film to watch during the holiday season as the winter/Christmas atmosphere that Burton creates for Gotham City is wonderful. It's weird that Warner decided to release this as a summer film. It doesn't fit.What's even weirder, when you consider the content of this film, is that it was aimed at families. An upper-class couple throws their mutant baby down the sewer, a socio-phobic billionaire dresses up in leather as a flying rodent, a lonely secretary has a mental breakdown and dresses up in leather as a feline, and said grown-up mutant baby freak runs for political office while being backed by a Trump-like business tycoon hungry for more power. Not to mention the S&M subtext that Tim Burton somehow managed to get away with. His eccentric visual style fits this film best, and is the height of his career, IMO. This is Tim Burton at his Tim Burtoniest.This is a true live-action incarnation of the comic-book character and Burton really should have stayed with the series to keep it on the correct course before it crashed and burned. Batman Returns is not as grown-up and straight-faced as the Dark Knight, but it's more atmospheric, and I just prefer the oddball character development here and Nolan's movies took themselves very, VERY seriously, almost to a fault. They are often depressing to watch while Burton's approach, and the animated series that it inspired, continues to resonate and find new fans.Darker and more violent than the first movie, the sense of Gothic pathos reaches a new high. I was quite keen on Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne, he displayed the right balance of weirdo loner and cool crime fighter. Michelle Pfieffer is amazing as Catwoman (much sexier and more 'realistically' cat-like), she wears that leather outfit better than the embarrassment of Anne Hathaway, who was simply appalling. Danny DeVito is so convincing as the Penguin that his scenes become a little disturbing to watch. Special mention must be made of Christopher Walken, who is brilliant as the spooky Max Shreck if you think you recognize his Chip Shrek it's none other than Butterfinger from Hudson Hawk (fitting, as co-writer Daniel Waters is the man responsible for turning that movie from an adventure heist into an absurdist comedy).Sam Hamm returns to pen the screenplay, this time without being restricted (and sabotaged) by writers strike deadlines and it's a stronger film with a better assortment of characters, chemistry, and dialogue. He even manages to get in a subtle dig at the shortcomings of the rewritten 1989 screenplay by criticising Alfred for letting Vicki Vale into the Batcave - something Alfred would never do but was necessary for fixing structure problems.Danny Elfman's score is also even better than it was first time round. His powerful and engaging themes define the Batman universe better than any other composer. No offense to Hans Zimmer, who made some wonderful stuff for Nolan's movies, but Elfman gave Batman a sonic aura that became world renowned and it will always be THE defining Batman sound. This movie is the Batman phenomenon at its Zenith. Stick to the animated series and forget the following sequels. Christopher Nolan brought integrity back to the series, but before Schumacher destroyed it, Burton gave the original series integrity too and I miss this twisted fairy tale incarnation of the character.An essential Christmas film, and my favorite Batman adventure.

33 years after being thrown in a sewer by his high society parents, Oswald Cobblepot aka The Penguin (Danny DeVito) has been raised by sewer penguins and now runs a gang of former circus performers called the Red Triangle Gang. Unscrupulous business man Max Shreck (Christopher Walken) is pushing Gotham City to build a power plant which in actuality is a capacitor that will syphon off energy from Gotham. When Schreck's put-upon secretary Selina Kyle (Michelle Pfeiffer) discovers Schreck's plan, Schreck throws her off a building, but she survives and suffering a psychotic break takes on the alias of Catwoman intent on taking revenge on Schreck. The Penguin having amassed a collection of blackmail materials regarding Schreck orchestrates a plan to attain power and prestiege in Gotham with Schreck's help, and while most of Gotham is sold on the image of Penguin Schreck has helped sell, Bruce Wayne (Michael Keaton) is not and believes Penguin is connected to the Red Triangle Gang terrorizing Gotham. As Bruce investigates as Batman he crosses paths with Catwoman who unbeknownst to him is his love interest Selina Kyle.Following the smash success of 1989's Batman, Warner Bros. Was eager to get a sequel from the same creative team. Burton filmed the critically acclaimed and commercially successful Edward Scissorhands and was hesitant on doing a sequel to Batman, but Warner Bros. Enticed Burton back with more creative control than the first film. While original Batman screenwriter Sam Hamm had written an early draft involving The Penguin and Catwoman searching Gotham for hidden treasure, Burton hired Heathers screenwriter Daniel Waters having been impressed by his work. The movie was critically successful as well as commercially so but the box office was a significant sum less than the previous film making $150 million less. Audiences were also not as receptive to the film with a massive parental backlash against the violence and sexualization of Catwoman that resulted in McDonalds ending its Happy Meal promotional tie-in with the film. To this day Batman Returns is a divisive entry in the movie with some appreciating it's bold, dark and bitterly ironic leanings while others call it a shapeless mess of a movie with lack of focus or direction. For me Batman Returns is a mess, but it's an ambitious mess.Regardless of what your feelings are on the movie as a whole, Batman Returns isn't a rehash sequel. From it's Christmas setting to its freakshow antagonists seldom a moment goes by in Batman Returns without some kind of visually magnetic oddity or "wait a minute, what!?" moment that it's pretty much guaranteed you'll stay engaged in the film. The production design has some unique elements such as The Penguins abandoned Zoo hideout but Gotham feels a lot smaller and emptier this time around with most of the action set around Gotham Square where the city's Christmas tree is situated and the surrounding streets when we do see them are strangely empty. Despite the first film having half the budget of Returns, Gotham felt like a living breathing metropolis with lots of bustling activity and there's not all that much of that here. With that said, despite clearly being a set it's a very well dressed set and they get some solid if goofy usage from it.The story of Batman Returns is both weirdly engaging and pretty boring. Max Schreck is arguably the primary antagonist in this film and despite being played by Christopher Walken his plan of building a capacitor disguised as a power plant to syphon Gotham's power grid doesn't make much sense and it's pretty underwhelming. Danny DeVito is well cast as the Penguin and despite being under several layers of make-up and prosthetics DeVito is giving his all to the performance. Batman Returns is largely responsible for the impression of Penguin as a gross rotund freak in comparison to his original intention being a gangster who was a send-up of high society "gentlemen". There's very little of The Penguin's "high society" attitude on display with a minor subplot of Penguin running for mayor probably about as close as we get to it while the rest of the time Penguin runs around in a filth and sweat stained onesy snarling through black teeth like a mixture of a overgrown baby and a rabid beast. The Penguin is odd in this movie, the movie plays his story of abandonment for tragedy and pathos, and yet he's also a sneering perverted, sadist who we're supposed to root against leaving the character in this weird limbo where he's too pathetic to hate but he's also too hateful to be sympathetic. Selina Kyle/Catwoman is no longer a thief and is instead the mousey, overburdened secretary whose character type will serve as trope in several Superhero movies after this one. According to Daniel Waters "Sam Hamm went back to the way comic books in general treat women, like fetishy sexual fantasy. I wanted to start off just at the lowest point in society, a very beaten down secretary"...certainly big words for a guy whose script plays up the sexuality of Catwoman with emphasized Dominatrix BDSM overtones. If you're going to make a statement like that maybe don't do so while also approaching the character in a way that's only slightly less sexualized than when Frank Miller turned her into a literal prostitute in Batman: Year One.You've probably noticed I haven't spoken much about Batman in this review of Batman Returns. Well that's because Batman is pretty much a secondary character. In terms of importance placed on characters it probably goes The Penguin, Catwoman, Schreck, and then Bruce Wayne/Batman. Since Batman avenged his parents murder by killing Joker in the last movie, Burton clearly has no idea what to do with him so Batman just goes around doing what he does because it's what he's supposed to do. Most of the initial focus of the movie is on the freakshow antagonists (and Max Schreck) with Batman really only making borderline cameo appearances in the first hour. Eventually the movie does incorporate him some more with Bruce Wayne and Selina Kyle starting a relationship with neither knowing the other is Batman or Catwoman respectively and it's a solid set-up for a conflict that the movie drags its heels in getting to. Batman Returns is a Batman movie made by someone who considers Batman the least interesting character in the film. Yes an action movie is only as good as it's villains, but that doesn't mean you scale back the hero to the barest possible minimum.Batman Returns has moments of brilliance in it and as a viewing experience with its twisted take on Christmas and macabre depressing imagery it's guaranteed you'll remember it. The movie's main antagonist of Max Schreck isn't interesting and the lack of Batman in place of focus on the villains is frusturating. But the performances by DeVito, Pfeiffer, and even Keaton despite reduced presence are still strong enough to make an engaging product. I can't say I liked it, but I will remember it and didn't hate it so do with that what you will.

Out of all the Bat-films, Batman Returns is my favorite.  This beautiful, dark, and funny film is one of Tim Burton's best work. Although it is much violent and darker, this is the Batman that creator Bob Kane envisioned many years ago.  Michael Keaton reprises his role as the avenger of Gotham City. This time he's up against two deadly foes, Danny Devito's Penguin and Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman.  With a great cast and film score by Danny Elfman, the movie takes us on an adventure as Batman battles the evil forces that are trying to take over Gotham City.  Christopher Walken makes a great appearance as Max Shrek, a shrewd businessman who has an evil scheme up his sleeve.  But of course, Michelle Pfeiffer is the one that steals the show. With all of these components, you have a film that will blow you away. This is the reason why you go to the movies.  It's got everything.  It's really a shame that Tim Burton didn't get to direct the other sequels.  If so I think the franchise would still be going strong today.  Batman Returns is an awesome experience for fans that like cool movies.

I don't know why critics cal it bizarre and macabre. I really don't. Dark -yes, bizarre - no. It i s sad and with lots of emotions, specially with the Pinguin's story. They say it has elements of S&M but I really don't find anything of that sort except for Catwoman's whip.This movie is deeper than its genre and villains aren't just some crazy freaks dressed like on a masquerade. They have strong motives with strong feelings involved. Catwoman (a great performance by Michelle Pfeifer!) isn't just a sexy chick who likes steeling jewels - she's on her personal crusade and Pinguin... well, by the end of the movie you really feel sorry for him (strong performance by Danny DeVito). Again, I think Michael Keaton is the best Batman and he carries his costume well.You can totally see that it is a Tim Burton movie, because he has an unusual style and is a very talented guy. But also the music is fantastic and fits the emotions.

Ah, Batman Returns, is it possible to have a sequel to be almost as good as the original? With Batman Returns, it came pretty close! We have terrific actors and a great plot with the dark knight and two new villains, Catwoman and The Penguin. We have Michael Keaton back as Batman and he's still awesome than ever. Michelle Pfieffer, the perfect choice for Catwoman and was perfectly cast into place. As much as I love and is such an incredible actress Annette Benning, she couldn't have been Catwoman, she doesn't really have the look. Danny DeVito, who could have imagined him as The Penguin? He was just great and terrifying! Batman returns with a more loving community of Gotham City, they are celebrating Christmas time with, Max Shrek played by a creepy Christopher Walken. The perfect villain who mistreats his lovely secretary, Selina who happens to hear too much at his office causing him to push her out the window in hopes that she dies and will never reveal the information of knowing the Penguin and the attempt to make him loved in Gotham. When she survives and is awakened by cats, she wants revenge and is ready to go at it with her cats! But there is also another active villain, The Penguin who is in search of his parents that abandoned him and now he is looking to be the new mayor of Gotham City! Can Batman be able to stop both super villains from creating their hanous acts and stop the mayor from destroying the city as well?You'll have to see! Batman Returns is just as good as the original Batman, despite the first one remaining the true classic, this one still takes you for a ride. And come on, I mean we've got Michelle in leather! Her classic moment of just meeting Batman and The Penguin "Meow" is classic! There are memorable characters, lines, and sets! You'll have a blast! Trust me! 9/10

Batman Returns (1992)I've seen this version of Batman a few times now, over the years, and in many ways it's the best of them all, along with the companion 1989 "Batman." And in some key ways, both of these fall just short of quite gelling into classics.Here's why, both ways.First, remembering Batman as a comic book hero, Tim Burton's version of that world is wonderfully exaggerated and fanciful and actually comic. This is the biggest difference (in my humble view) with the Nolan films of the last decade. Where Burton sees a chance to be inventive and playful, Nolan sees a chance to make the unbelievable real.It's a relief that there is no reality to Burton's world. Sometimes you can tell the movie was shot on a set—and the same set, rather a lot—but that's again part of the "world" we are drawn into.Characters for Burton are about excess just beyond camp. The Penguin is pretty amazing—Danny DeVito pulls it off like no one else could, an equal to Jack Nicholson's Joker from Burton's earlier Batman flick. And Catwoman as played by Michelle Pfeiffer is terrific. Batman himself might be a matter of taste—many people prefer Michael Keaton but I find him dull. And in this movie, he mostly stands around as Bruce Wayne and drives around as Batman. Not much physicality here.Christopher Walken? He starts off being weird and wonderful and then kind of keeps that steady state attitude throughout (even as his world is in constant tumult). It works, but it's not perfect. In fact that's what happens a lot of the time. Some of the "action" sequences aren't as elegantly edited (or shot) as other similar films (especially Nolan's) and so there is energy but not necessarily a visceral involvement. (You have to be thinking about this while watching it, I suppose.)But it's Burton's idea of Gotham, and his development of characters, that makes the movie really special. Whatever its limitations, it has so much that goes beyond expectations—and beyond the somber grandiosity of the Nolan versions—you really need to see it.

Batman Returns came at a time when Tim Burton and Danny Elfman had become a superstar team and forgot what landed them there. Whereas films like Pee Wee's Big Adventure and Beetlejuice had lots of over-the-top set pieces, surreal themes and bounding music, they also had a lot of good heart, charm, fresh ideas and fun storylines.Batman Returns is pure style over substance, and the style isn't even pleasant to look at or listen to. It's dirty, gritty and alienating. None of Batman's gadgets or action scenes feel exciting, inventive or original, and yet they're presented as if they were. You often feel like you're missing something, but no, there just isn't much there once you strip away the surrealist style and bombastic sounds.In contrast to Nicholsan's Joker, there's zero charisma in DeVito's Penguin nor Michelle Pfieffer's Catwoman. And in the latter's case, her looks, which are covered up most of the time, can't save her.Speaking of sound, Danny Elfman shows zero restraint and just can't help but cram his bombastic soundtrack into your ears even when nothing on the screen warrants it. It quickly wears you out and you occasionally feel the need to cover your ears just to get a break from it. The opening score is suitably epic and memorable, and that's not the problem. It's in the music score throughout the rest. Every single little thing elicits these overly loud baritone romps that stop being a soundtrack and instead become rather obvious attempts to make the audience pay attention to the soundtrack more than the film itself. At least in the first Batman, Elfman's score gets a break during Prince's music tracks. Not so, here. It's non-stop and over-saturated, and your ears will beg for it to stop.While Burton and Elfman are trying to one-up each other - Burton with visual style and Elfman with music - Burton forgot he was actually supposed to tell a story and have compelling characters. His self-indulgence tanks the entire film. It doesn't work as an action film and it doesn't work as a stylistic film. It just sucks. And because it's so loud, you can't just close your eyes and tune it out to feel like you got your money's worth. It won't let you.I worked at a movie theater when Batman Returns was in theaters, and the very best part of it is the song Face to Face by Siouxsie and the Banshees which plays during the closing credits. It's the only time in the whole experience of this movie you don't feel like it's trying to blast you out of the theater with its visuals and obnoxious soundtrack. I remember people exiting the theater looking tired and disoriented, feeling like they were supposed to like what they just watched, but confused about why they didn't.Batman Returns was a box office success, but critical viewers knew it was not a great film and you can only make so many of those before the audience will turn on you. I don't think Burton made another film that truly follows up his earlier work until Big Fish in 2003. Burton and Elfman are the classic example of great talents that need a steady and restraining hand for them to perform at their best.

As a life-long mega Bat-fan, I thought that Batman Returns did the best job (of all four films) of portraying the Dark Knight. Sure, the 1989's Batman was great, but it was lopsided; it might as well have been called "Joker" considering the focus of the film. Batman Returns allowed us a better look at Batman/Bruce Wayne himself, who was little more than an imposing supporting cast member in the first film; I loved Jack Nicholson's over-the-top performance, but THIS fanboy wanted more of the Caped Crusader in the film. Batman Returns gave us that and more...we got Batman/Bruce character development, the AWESOME give-and-take between Batman and Catwoman (one of the strangest courtships in comics), and Burton even tossed us a little bit of fun, dark humor with Shreck and the Penguin. Everyone's performances maintained consistent characterizations that came across beautifully as both mad and tragic; Keaton was subtly psychotic, Pfeiffer was fatally seductive, Walken was deliciously megalomaniacal, and DeVito was unwaveringly grotesque. Everyone pulled off their characters with gusto and memorable appeal. Though not as dark and gritty as the first film, "Returns" captured the subtle madness that permeates Gotham City. When you compare "Returns" to the other Batman films, it is easy to see that it gives Batman's world the touch of underlying insanity (as only Burton can capture) that the first film lacked (where was the Joker's twisted sense of humor?) and the last two increasingly turned into the Three Stooges ("Chicks dig the car"!?!). Batman Returns excelled in that it was a dark, disturbingly insane portrait of Batman and Gotham City; a film that carefully balances on the fine line where and darkness and madness meet. For those movie lovers brave enough to try walking that line, I recommend this film.

Having seen off the evil Joker, the Caped Crusader now has to deal with with two other deadly foes to keep Gotham City safe. The crazy mutant like Penguin and the power crazy megalomaniac in waiting Max Shreck. But wait, just who is this women dressed up like a cat? Friend or Foe? Seems the Dark Knight has a lot on his hands this Christmas.In 1989 director Tim Burton rekindled the super hero genre for Warner Brothers with his take on Batman. Made for $35 million, recouping over that in its opening weekend, the film went on to make a Worldwide profit of over $375 million. The sequel of course was inevitable, as was the return of Burton, even if he dallied around trying to bluff that he would only return if a script was fresh and exciting. Sure enough, and with Burton getting the script he wanted from Daniel Waters, Batman Returns turned over a profit of over $185 million. Thus ensuring that further franchise instalments were to follow, even if, as it turned out, Burton didn't.Batman Returns is more breezy than its predecessor, not in humour terms, but in action. In fact for a genre so steeped in sense of humour, Returns is surprisingly devoid of comedy. A charge of both Burton & Waters taking things a little too seriously is hard to argue against. But that's not to decry the good things that run abound in the film. Burton's trademark Gothics exist all told, and it has its darkness, both in themes and in actual visuals. All of course accompanied by a whirling Danny Elfman score. But what of the story itself? Well this perhaps would have been better served as being titled something along the lines of "The Penguin Cometh," for make no fish bones about it, this is the Penguin movie. Batman and Catwoman are in essence just playing henchman and henchwoman, with Max Shrek serving only as plot device that's saying the real villains of our world don't wear masks or costumes. A bold move by Burton to have the Penguin as the lead protagonist, one that financially paid off. But one that ultimately turned many away from revisits for its perceived un- family friendly being. Guilty as charged said Burton, it's his vision and he stands by it. Thus Batman Returns stands up as the most adult of the four Batman movies made in the modern wave from 1989 to 1997. Quite a feat when you consider the film is set during the bastion of all family holidays! Sadly what was to follow would be kiddie friendly fodder served up by Joel Schumacher-reaching a crushing and chronic nadir with Batman & Robin.The cast are mostly excellent, Keaton does what he can in what is ultimately now a cog in a big wheel role. While Max Shreck gets to play Christopher Walken with relish and oratory menace (yes I did it on purpose). However, it's with Michell Pfeiffer's Catwoman & Danny Devito's Penguin that the film reaches its acting heights. Pfeiffer plays it mousey for Selina Kyle and then leaps at the chance to vamp it up as the delicious Catwoman. With a sultry miaow here and a tippy tappy skip there, this Cat is all in one sexy and very dangerous, something poor Bats is going to have to contend with. But it's DeVito's show all the way. Charged with having to follow Jack Nicholson's film stealing turn from the first film, DeVito immerses himself in the role of the pathetic, deformed, yet dangerously criminal Penguin. It's a monstrous creation fit to grace any modern day horror movie, with DeVito's physicality proving a necessity for the mutant flippered one who was raised in the sewers. If only Danny had been given more opportunities like this to show his talent.There's many missteps in here too, though. Burton is no master of directing action, and some of the one liners shoe-horned in are poor and pointless. While the whole birth of Catwoman story arc just isn't explained in any way. In fact it's all a bit lazy in truth. Burton though, remains a film maker with his own visual flair, his layering of atmosphere as Gotham is on the brink of collapse is expertly crafted. He has stuff to say and he's going to have fun saying said stuff. Often frustrating he can be for sure, but always he carries a uniqueness into many of his films. Batman Returns is no different in that respect. 7/10

All people always say that this is one of the best sequels ever but I don't agree at all but this first one could have been very beautiful much more if some things were handled well So I'll explain a few things to you We all know that Tim Burton doesn't do at allsequels and for this reason the director really wanted this film to be completely separate from the first and for this reason there were not many references to the previous film Ah for example he never mentions the Jokers and yet he really made a mess in Gotham City and so on of dementia II understand that the character of Vicky is no longer there because they made him leave the city think about Valla but what happened to Harvey Dent he disappeared and then he should be the most important character in Gotham City and instead he isn't there it's true but we'll see it again in the next filmSo let's say the positive things Gotham City is much darker than the previous film Another thing I like is the penguin I like it a lot But in this version he is really a monster seen and how he is made but he hates everyone because he hasn't received good things since he was bornanother positive thing Batman I already told you in a previous review but now let's move on to some things that don't make me shout better the sequels let's say the negative things you're the Penguin I gave him ok But you can't say the same thing about the others two villains starting with max Shrek I haveonly found a terrible villain and then I'm not crazy about his motivations for being evil this villain is to be rejected but at the top Villain that I don't like at all is Catwoman everyone says that she is one of the most beautiful villains of Batman films sorry but I'm sorry I just found him to be a terrible villainI'm not crazy about this villain But how they made her in the film she's just hateful but everyone doesn't say but this Catwoman seems crazier to me than the Joker Yes because she makes it even worse everything makes it much worse and you can't understand one thing it's over because in the end it seems like it's gone, it's nothe understands if she's disappeared or dead since she got electrocuted to kill Shrek but another one is the last negative thing Which doesn't really make sense if in the first film Batman held his own he has a lot of people but in this second film he can't hold his own a woman be taken Yet in the firsthe didn't even let himself be touched and instead he receives a lot of blows it's a scratch I'm sorry This is power they were wasted for these mistakes But this doesn't mean I hate this film this film is promoted
to conclude rating 6.

A nice follow-up to blockbuster fantasy epic that renewed Hollywood's faith in media blitzing. Batman returns contains a lot of noisy action ,thrills, chills and dazzling production design. The caped crusader is back in Gotham City, where even the criminals are afraid to walk the streets alone. There's a new breed of criminals in Gotham City led the the sinister the Penguin. While Batman (Michael Keaton) deals with a deformed man calling himself the Penguin (Danny DeVito) wreaking havoc across Gotham with the help of a cruel businessman (Christopher Walken), a female employee (Michelle Pfeiffer) of the latter becomes the Catwoman with her own revenge. From the Sewers of Gotham, and New Villain Emerges. From the Rooftops of Gotham, the Purrrfect Enemy Comes to Life. And the Only One Who Can Save this City, is a Creature of the Night. While She Craves a Romance She can Sink Her Claws Into, He Plots a Fowl Reign of Destruction, Above Gotham, Looms Its Greatest Hero.This is a dynamic, fast- paced and entertaining movie. Full of action , it's complemented by violent images, thriller and breathtaking scenes with overwhelming fights and traditional FX along with brief computer generator special effects. The dark story is made believable and the script has more pace to it than former film Batman (1989). The picture relies on terrific flying sequences, impressive struggles, black humor and breathtaking pursuits. More of the same from director Tim Burton with Batman more of a supporting role overshadowed by provocative villains. With Danny DeVito cruely misshapen Penguin who seeks to role over Gotham City. Michelle Pfeiffer is the dangerous and exotic Catwoman who has more than a passing personal interest in Batman and Christopher Walken in the maniacal tycoon Max Shreck. Keaton is surprisingly good as the dual personality hero though Pfeiffer steals the show, she fares best in her wickedly sexy character and second-skin costume completed with bullwhip.The motion picture was well directed by Tim Burton. Being preceded by ¨Batman¨ (1989) with similar cast : Michael Keaton , Michael Gough, Jack Nicholson , Kim Basinger , Robert Wuhl , Tracey Walter , Pat Ingle , Jack Palance. Followed by ¨Batman and Robin¨ (1997) by Joel Schumacher with Val Kilmer, Chris O'Donnell, Uma Thurman, Alicia Silverstone , Michael Gough , Arnie, Pat Ingle , John Glover. And ¨Batman Forever¨ (1995) by Joel Schumacher with George Clooney, Chris O'Donnell, Jim Carrey , Nicole Kidman , Drew Barrymore , Deby Mazar , Don Dragon Wilson, among others .

This sequel proves that Tim Burton was for all intents and purposes THE best choice to ever direct a Batman movie. The story focuses on Baman taking on three enemies: The Penguin (wonderfully played by Danny DeVito) Catwoman (the slinky Michelle Pfeiffer) and Max Shreck (the superb Christopher Walken).Perhaps the best entry in the series, it has it all: complex themes, complex characters and a dark tone that truly stands out. The cast is simply wonderful although the obvious stand-out is DeVito as the multi-layered Penguin. Here is a guy who is evil, pitiable, funny and perhaps most importantly, scary. The infamous scene with Shreck's image consultants still sends shivers up my spine. In other words, the cast is simply a joy to watch and all turn in first rate performances.I do not hesitate to say that "Batman Returns" is my favorite of all the Batmans released (sorry, Dark Knight fans). If you want a superhero film that has a little more to offer besides flashy effects and big scale action, then please check out this badly underrated film. If nothing else, it's at least the best film Tim Burton has ever made.

You know those films you watched when growing up, that you thought were SO amazing, but when you go back and re-watch them, you realise they're not all they're cracked up to be? Well...this is one of those films. It's the very definition of "style over substance". Sure, it LOOKS great, and yes, it *does* have a memorable theme provided by Danny Elfman, but having said that...there's still plot holes aplenty (big enough to drive a Batmobile through). Where to begin? Let's start with the obvious ones: Since when are their penguins living in the sewers? How does a mutant baby penguin-child survive in said sewers, and where in the WORLD does he find both goons and high-tech gizmos exactly? Let's not even get into the part involving penguins with rockets on their backs. Seem unlikely? Not half as unlikely as a lonely secretary (sorry...ASSISTANT) getting shoved out of a high-rise building, plummeting to her apparent "death", only to be brought back to life by a clutter of cats (who appear from seemingly nowhere) via some sort of bizarre cat ritual that involves them jumping over her prone body and chewing on her fingers. This results in her being turned talcum powder white, acting like a zombie and then going all "crazy" at home (her poor stuffed animals meet a grisly end in the garbage disposal). Despite having "died" and then resurrecting, she still manages to create an entire home-stitched dominatrix catsuit (complete with cowl and gloves) out of a single black vinyl jacket. She both feels and LOOKS "so much yummier". Her resurrection also granted her martial arts skills, the ability to wield a whip with expert proficiency and the urge to randomly blow up buildings. Resurrection via kitty bite RULES! I guess feline saliva has some amazing properties in it? Kitty spit is made of AWESOME.Catwoman's not the only one to defy death, though. The Penguin manages to survive his entire sewer lair collapsing on him long enough to drool black-green goo and deliver some lame last line before he falls down dead (finally!) and is miraculously carried into the water by his army of penguins. This is, of course, after he's managed to not only convince all of Gotham that he's some sort of "hero" who just wants to find out about his heritage, but somehow be in the running for Mayor. I guess it's not *that* hard...when it appears that all of Gotham are grade A morons. Didn't they learn anything from the Joker? I guess the Penguin's just smarter than the average Gothamite (he *does* somehow acquire the technology needed to deactivate Batman's Batmobile armour and tamper with it after all. Not to mention he has a vast array of trick umbrellas - talk about fancy technology. He hooks the handle of one of these special umbrellas - that doubles as a mini helicopter - around Catwoman's neck and sends her her up, up and away at one point...simply for rejecting his icky advances. I felt sorry for Catwoman there, but on the plus side, she got to fly over Gotham City's skyline and see the sights).Someone whose the total opposite of that^ and is completely incapable of having fun is Batman himself. Bruce Wayne just sits in his dimly-lit mansion, in a constant state of broodiness, doing absolutely *nothing* until he sees the Bat-Signal in the sky - at which point he's all pursed lips and dramatic head-turns. What a boring Batman! You'd think he'd be playing poker with Alfred at least, but no, he's just waiting for the signal, in a constant broody mood. When he puts on the Bat-suit, however, his mood shifts to...glum. Seriously, his mouth is turned downwards (when he's Batman) to such an extent that it looks like a muppet mouth. His Batmobile - which you can tell was solely designed with the idea of what a great toy it'd make for kids in mind - is ready for ANY occasion. Why should Penguin be the only one with unbelievable technology? As far as the actors go, Keaton doesn't have much to do besides scowl. DeVito is pretty nasty in his Penguin make-up and gives a nicely creepy performance. Walken (as Selina's tycoon boss, Max Shreck) and his crazy grey hair - which looks like the result of too much electricity - is the very definition of "arch". He actually twiddles his fingers in an evil manner at one point. ALL the characters spout cringe-worthy dialogue at some time or another, with varying degrees of success.The one who comes out on top, of course, is Miss. Selina Kyle herself - Michelle Pfeiffer. She is the definitive Catwoman, no matter what anybody else says. Yes, her origin story may vary from that of the comic book character or whatever, but it's of little importance. Pfeiffer exudes sexiness. She rises above the movie's shortcomings to bring us a memorable villainess/anti-hero, who encourages women to stand up for themselves, by gum! She makes the transformation from lonely, frustrated, slightly bumbling secretary (who gives us monologues - out loud - about her love life...or lack thereof), into a back-flipping, whip-cracking (and sometimes jump-roping), stun-gunning dominatrix capable of fitting an entire canary in her gob (I wonder how the bird managed not to suffocate in there?) - and you can't help but love every minute of it. Even when she rather foolishly lets herself get shot multiple times - just to prove a point - but soldiers on, rhyming as she does so. Shreck finally has a reason for his hair looking like that of the Doc's (from Back To The Future) there at the end, when there's some sparkage between him and Selina. Pfeiffer completely owns the part, and it's a relief to see her pop up into frame just before the credits roll (somehow having repaired her cowl - which had previously had holes in it that bits of her wild mane stuck out from). Meow indeed.

One of the darker films ever made. It is one of my personal favorite Batman movies. Batman Returns is dark, violent and a worthy sequel to the 1989 Batman. Danny DeVito gave a brilliant performance as The Penguin. The only two good things in this movie are return of Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne/Batman and Danny DeVito as The Penguin. I thought classic original Batman (1989) was way better film than this. Batman Returns is my second favorite Batman film in the franchise. The film has a many problems in here I didn't like and it annoys me, but there are other things I did like and love in the second installment.Things I don't like in this film: Michelle Pfeiffer as Selina Kyle/ Catwoman she was extremely violent woman. I still couldn't believe how could an grown aged woman act like a child, trying to be an animal and than she just rip off a harmless pet rubber animals stuff them in a sinker , destroying a doll house, spraying a t-shirt and than acting that she is the queen in this movie? She wasn't written and portrayed by the comic books like was Anne Hathaway in The Dark Knight Rises. Selina Kyle was never a secretary like she was in Shreck Company, she wasn't a vigilante, violent or angry woman. She was a cat burglar and a thief. She didn't went around cutting people like she did in this film, she only did what was necessary to do for survival. That is the main problem in this film. I still prefer and think Kim Basinger is much better better actress than Michelle Pfeifer is and I still love Vicky Vale much better than Selina Kyle. Sorry Bat fans. I wish there wouldn't be Max Shreck in this film because he look's like a selfish lunatic person. Those are the main problems I don't like in this film, that is why this movie is not better than his superior predecessor. Things I do like in this film:The Action sequences are outstanding and awesome and Fight sequences are fantastic. The first fight between Batman and Catwoman is awesome. The film is very dark which I love that in the film. Michael Keaton reprise his role back as Bruce Wayne/Batman. It is my childhood film and I will always watch it. It was a big hit in 1992 when the film come out, there were different times then, than they are today. The story centers around Christmas Eve. The Penguin, releases several bats that fly frantically around the girl's (Ice Princess) head, causing her to lose her balance and fall, but giving the impression that Batman, visible to the crowd below, had pushed her. She lands on the tree switch, lighting it up and unleashing a flurry of bats that the Penguin had hidden within the branches. Batman attempts to flee. I love that Batman flees in this film around Bats flying the crowd. It shows his symbol stands for Bat which he is a Batman. He also try to save that girl when she was kidnapped but couldn't. The Penquin and Catwoman becomes alley and they set up Batman to be a criminal. I love how The Penguin had placed a control device under the car that let he himself steer it from an arcade-style car hidden in a trailer. Batman, helpless, is trapped behind the wheel of the Batmobile as it veers through the streets, knocking over city property and frightening citizens. Batman manages to remove the control device before anyone is killed, and returns home. That is the best awesome scene I have seen. Batskiboat using in this film that batman drives on the sewer was FANTASTIC! Beside Batmobil there was other vehicle used in this film. Batman saving all the children from Penquin was also awesome. Batman was a real hero in this film. There was no Robin in here. Which I am happy about it. Batman does not need any sidekick to help him out. I hate Robin, don't get me wrong I don't like that character and I never did. Michael Keaton Is excellent as Bruce Wayne/Batman his acting performance to me in both Burton films is better than Christian Bale is. Michael Keaton's Bruce Wayne was a clearly uncomfortable man, a mumbling solitary eccentric, ill at ease in his own skin and with other people. In the Batsuit, though, he becomes the beast he really is, an imposing personification of vengeance and fear, despite his slighter frame. There's something far more sympathetic about Keaton's Bruce Wayne. Maybe it's because he was never recorded throwing a wobbler on set. Tim Burton did a great job directing and producing the second Batman film. I love the costume designer by Bo Welch for Catwoman, Batman and Penquin. J. P. Morgan's wardrobe was used for inspiration on Max Shreck's costume design. I think those three actors Michael Keaton, Danny DeVito and Michelle Pfeifer did a great character chemistry and good acting performance. CGI was also not bad for the bats I real love it. I love this film not as much as I love The Dark Knight and Batman but I still love it. The rating I give to this film is 10/10. Anything under 7 would be ridiculous, as anyone claiming this isn't at least a GOOD action film.

"Batman Returns" brought Tim Burton back to the Batman franchise after 1989's incredibly successful first outing. The movie proved to be a financial success but opinion is divided on whether or not the movie lived up to its now iconic predecessor.This time around, Batman (Michael Keaton) faces off against a pair of his longtime nemeses - the Penguin (Danny DeVito) and Catwoman (Michelle Pfeiffer). Plot-wise, the Penguin teams up with a corrupt businessman (Christopher Walken) in order to essentially take control of Gotham City. Catwoman, meanwhile, has her own reasons for getting in on the action.I find that "Batman Returns" has a more pronounced Tim Burton feel than "Batman", which isn't surprising considering that he was given more creative control. Whether that's a good or a bad thing for the movie is subject to debate. Personally, I find that this is where the franchise started gravitating towards the cartoonish aspects of the character's universe, which would only get worse with the poorly regarded third & fourth films.The cast is pretty decent but it's tough to fill the hole left by Jack Nicholson. Nevertheless, Danny DeVito is effective as the Penguin and Michelle Pfeiffer is alluring as the leather-clad Catwoman. Christoper Walken, meanwhile, supplies a typically Christopher Walken-esque performance as only he can. Unfortunately, one of the drawbacks of introducing all of these characters is that Batman himself is noticeably absent for most of the beginning of the movie.Burton's direction is solid as always but the visuals just seem to lack something in comparison to the first film. Perhaps it's the Christmas setting or maybe it's just that the production design in general isn't as ominous. At least they were able to get Danny Elfman back to handle the music again.Ultimately, I think that "Batman Returns" is a decent follow-up but no match for the first movie. Saying that it's better than "Batman Forever" and "Batman & Robin" doesn't count for much but I would say that it's a reasonably entertaining superhero movie, all things considered. It's just that, with the glut of superhero movies in recent years, it's no longer particularly remarkable.

Many of us find art agreeable only when the masterpiece itself touches something deep inside us. That is, the completed creation can only be accepted and appreciated if we can somehow personally relate to it. It was winter, here in Australia 1992 when I had seen Batman Returns at the cinemas and it blew me away. Both "me's". I was supposed to belong to an ideal, a standard, but at the same time I was living another life. Tim Burton was the first film maker to say its OK for a comic movie to be dark and to confess that darkness can happen to us all. After Tim Burton's Batman interpretations, many other dark comic book heroes and anti-heroes flooded the cinemas. Comic book folklore for decades had told of friendly, likable heroes with dashingly handsome smiles and magical superpowers who fly in the sky, and spun powerful webs from their wrists and wore red boots and had the strength of a locomotive. But what happens when you are only ten years old and you see your parents coldly executed in front of your very eyes? You snap. Somewhere in your psyche,your young tender psychological make up breaks apart. The only way such pain and hurt can be managed is to create an alternate persona.You make a promise. Your other self will be stronger, harness all the anger all the rage to use whatever means available to avenge the innocence of your parents onto that criminal, those criminals, any criminal. This is life seen through Bruce Wayne's eyes. Both pairs. The world he sees is dark, gloomy, and cold. Although he patrols the streets and people hear him cruise by, they don't rush out to get his autograph. He is their Saviour, not the winner of a personality contest. Batman Returns is about losers. Batman, for yet another Christmas, remains "the only lonely man beast in town". Bruce Wayne never gets to lawfully arrest the vile Max Shreck. The Penguin never gets to unleash his pain of being discarded by his parents onto the citizens of Gotham, and Selina Kyle is forever lost to being mentally fragmented and traumatized. And the hero doesn't get the girl- or cat.This movie delves into the desire in all of us to want so desperately to belong, to have a home, as expressed by Bruce Wayne and Oswald Cobblepot.The film brings out a need in all of us to be heard, respected and not ignored as desired by Selina Kyle , Oswald and of course Bruce Wayne. But sometimes we are all suppressed in one way or another, we are told to be an ideal, to behave to a certain standard. That is until we finally snap. Only hope remains at the end of the movie as we see Catwoman rise towards the night sky. But come what may we all must wish good will towards all men and women. As for me , I cant say that I will reach a point where I will believe my problem with duality will be reconciled. But thats OK. We all have a dark side. Batman Returns is not only the best of the Batman films ,it is truly a stand out exceptionally fine masterpiece of storytelling.

Bizarre second outing for the Dark Knight that goes overboard on the darkness, but remains highly entertaining. DeVito has way too much fun, and Pfeiffer's Catwoman remains the benchmark. This film forced the overcorrection of Batman Forever and disastrous Batman and Robin. Can't help but wonder what would have happened if Burton and Keaton continued the series. 7/10.

One of the most anticipated movies in my life, and by far the biggest disappointment. It is hard to believe that Tim Burton directed both this and the original Batman. I went to see it with my brother on something like the second day it was released. The theater was jam packed, and there was a lot of chatting. When the advertisement stopped, and the movie started many people cheered. When they showed Michael Keaton for the first time, many more people cheered, it was pretty nuts. The excitement from the audience very slowly died down and at the end of the movie no-one clapped, no-one cheered, we just all cleared the full theater, most of us with dull looks on our faces.I think the worst part of the movie was the animal element. There were a bunch of bats, a bunch of cats, and a bunch of penguins. The character to take the animal mania the furthest was Catwoman. She licked herself clean, she purred, she crawled like a cat, and oh yeah, she had nine lives. Did we need any of this? Penguin in the comic books wasn't a penguin, he was a fat guy in a tuxedo. Catwoman wasn't a cat, and Batman wasn't a bat.Why must all good comic book movies have sequels that are so silly? We need more people who understand the comic books, and less people who have no problem with making them look real stupid. I'm glad that Burton stopped making Batman movies, but I'm afraid his successor did the same thing with HIS second Batman movie..

I've enjoyed this movie ever since I was a kid and I still do. I also liked Batman forever back then but the real difference is that THIS movie didn't date when I grew up. I did notice a few scenes in this film that didn't make any sense like: 'Hhmm... the crowd is angry. Hey! Where did they get those tomatoes from?' Then I thought: 'who cares? This movie is not 100% serious anyway!'The original Tim Burton Batman was great as well but it was a bit cheesy at some parts and I didn't like all the actors. This movie improved on almost every aspect with a wonderful cast, a more Gothic style and no involvement of Prince. Nowadays, many fans of the Christopher Nolan movies dislike Burton claiming that the Nolan movies are more serious and therefore more loyal to the comics. I don't think this is entirely true: -There has never been an adaptation of the original concept of Batman which was a vengeful criminal killer with a gun. -Batman has taken many forms over the years peeking its silliness in the 60's (and a bit with Batman & Robin). A director is free to choose what kind of Batman he's going to portray as long if it's good.My opinion: Batman doesn't necessarily have to be serious. It's about a man in a rubber suit with pointy ears. Burton managed to create a perfect balance between the silliness and the darkness surrounding the whole idea.I just recently watched the Nolan movies and I love those ones as well (especially The Dark Knight). There's simply something about this movie that interests me more. Nolan's goal was to give the character much more depth and in doing so, he looked for an explanation of nearly every aspect of Batman. That's a bit too much for me, I'm a bigger fan of the more abstract version of Batman. The Burton movies are more theatrical and centered around the atmosphere.My conclusion is that you shouldn't compare the Nolan with the Burton movies. They're just different and it's up to you to decide which one you like better. My respect is for both directors.

Batmust returns is the darkest batman movie to date. With a scary villain, and sneaky hero/villain and the dark knight himself. The penguin brings a dark look to the character. Tim Burton success from the 1st batman brings the success of batman returns, a very good storyline with good actors bringing the characters to life. Burton dark and Gothic scenes gives Gotham the reign of terror look, makes you believe that batman is needed in Gotham. A film that was ahead of it time. The audience of 1992 wasn't ready for this, but as time as gone on the film has become more liked, maybe the downfall of batman forever and batman and robin, everyone seemed to realise then that this film was very good and should of kept Tim Burton as the director. Never the less a brilliant film and 100% must see.

There were a lot of things that were excellent about this movie, like the cinematography and the performances, though it isn't as good as the first film. Michael Keaten is suitably brooding as the Dark Knight, better than George Clooney in Batman and Robin (considered as the worst out the franchise)though he is overshadowed by the villains, namely Danny DeVito as the Penguin, who looked as though he was having a ball, and brought a sense of sadness and grotesquesness to the role. Christopher Walken was effective also as Max Schrek. Stealing the show, with her flawless delivery of not-so special lines, is Michelle Pfeiffer as the sexy and manipulative Catwoman. The film looks lovely, with the sets and effects, and Tim Burton directs with detail. However the film does drag, and while there are some intelligent lines from the villains, the script could have been developed a little more. All in all, a dark and entertaining film. Whereas Batman Forever is funnier and more fast paced, Batman Returns is darker, but just lacks the sophistication of the first film. 8/10 Bethany Cox.

Ah, heres a movie I remember fondly from my childhood. Man I had it all, the toys, the McDonald's happy meal toys (not to mention those cool large plastic McDonald's cups my mom bought me) the sega video game, the trading cards, the t shirts, the batmobile candy dispensers, all kinds of neat merch based on the movie. of course in retrospect, this is not at all a kids movie, despite the fact its batman and was aimed at kids who bought happy meals. but that doesn't mean its not a great movie. not every superhero movie has to cater strictly to the kids. nevertheless, my 6 year old self was too in love with batman to care about how dark it was, I still loved anything and everything having to do with my favorite superhero and I must have watched this movie, along with the other 2 movies (1989 batman and batman forever) a zillion times on video.here's the premise. Batman truly does Return in this sequel to the 1989 mega hit, and this time hes better then ever. hes got some new toys (like the electronic self-targeting Baterang), vehicles and even has 2 new classic villains to contend with.penguin is a classic Tim Burton character in this one, but that can only be a good thing. in this movie, Burton makes the characters very ambiguous. is the penguin really half animal, half human? is cat woman part cat, part woman? these questions never really get answered. personally, i don't believe they are part animal at all. the penguin is all human albeit a VERY deformed and ugly one, and is only called Penguin because of his deformities. Catwoman is always human but the whole "9 lives" thing makes it ambiguous whether she has supernatural powers or whether shes just very lucky. its debatable. Batman is the only normal guy in this. in fact, Keaton being the calm cool hero both as Bruce Wayne and batman, grounds the movie and keeps it together whereas the 2 villains are completely crazy and psychotic nut cases. it seemed Keaton didn't have it all together in the last movie, he had a a lot of demons to fight with, but by the end you got the feeling he found his purpose in life, now that hes got a bat-signal and the law on his side. so naturally, in this one he seems more together and knows what hes doing. its the villains who are not together and have all these obvious mental problems, so much so that they actually make batman look normal. if it was anyone else playing batman, it wouldn't have worked. but Michael Keaton has a unique screen presence that when he puts on the bat suit, he literally IS batman and lets face it, no one before or since has had the manly swagger that Michael Keaton had as batman. he was a bit older, getting some greys, was this sort of gruff everyman but has this seriousness and "normal guy" look that makes you take him seriously as batman. other actors who have played batman seem too pretty boy or hand picked and thus don't feel real. Keaton is like the everyman normal looking 40 year old gruff guy and he demands you take him seriously. this is a very artsy film, compared to its blockbuster brother from 1989, which was basically a cut-&-dry blockbuster action/adventure. but it really didn't have any emotion or depth to it, despite Keaton's sincere efforts. Thats where Returns comes in. all the characters are very interesting and in a way, they all echo Batman. Catwoman is the dark vigilante side of him, while the Penguin shows what Bruce Wayne could have been if he turned bitter against the world. I've heard many ppl say that this batman film is not really about Batman himself, and that too much attention is given to the villains, but i will say again, its not a bad thing, and doesn't ruin this film. batman himself is really not a very interesting character when you think about it. hes essentially a guy who's see's his parents get killed as a kid, he trains for X years, then decides to becomes batman for revenge purposes. OK. thats it. there's no more to it really. certainly not something i want to watch for a whole 2 hours. i really didn't see a point in making a whole movie about his origin a couple years ago, i think it was a waste. i was always kinda hoping they would bring back the Burton style of filmaking for batman movies, or maybe even get Burton back to direct. but alas, we got something that felt like a lesser version of the 1989 film. sad. but hey, we always have the Tim Burton films to enjoy. those, IMO, captured the real batman, beyond the facade of "comic book" movie looks (which, in Burton's case, is actually a good thing). as far as i'm concerned, Burton is the only guy to have directed Batman movies. hes the only one who i believed truly understood batman, as you can see in his various films. the other directors never really...got it. they just don't get batman. they only got him as a character, thats it. but Burton KNEW batman, he understood his plight in life, and the darkness inherent in the material. thats why this is to me, the best, and most personal, Batman film. it shows batman, and his villains, at there most raw. they are all hurt individuals, and thats what makes this film so powerful. this is what a batman film should be. serious, witty, playful, phycological, and DARK. while still retaining the comic book style that we all expect. this film also paved the way for the wonderful Batman: The Animated Series, which also shares Tim Burton's dark, Gothic look and feel from both of his Batman films. it even uses the same theme!

Batman Returns is to be considered quality when one speaks of superhero films. Its predecessor, Batman, in my opinion, is by far the greatest and most well thought out of the comic book genre. For one to say that Batman Returns was disappointing, he or she has not fully watched the movie and considered the acting of Danny Devito as the Penguin. Devito and Walken offer some memorable moments. The tale of Batman is suppose to be dark and Tim Burton has fulfilled how the comic portrays Batman. Batman Returns provides comic relief, action, suspense and fantasy; and it should not be viewed as 'crap', although we are all entitled to our own opinions.

My friends will know I have a mixed opinion of Nolans batman films. Begins was dull, TDK was pretty cool and TDKR....well, we have batman and robin to contend with worst batman movie.I say this as my friends say "the old films are to light hearted" I reply "Go watch batman returns" This film takes influences both from Batman and Burton's film he made just before this, Edward Scissorhands. The latter was Burton's personal favourite film, and for this film, he wanted to bring something new to the table.Batman returns has the Gothic, almost fairy tale like feel of Scissorhands-a dark, twisted fairy tale anyway. This is due to impressive production design, and Danny Elfmans score, which has the choir elements added in for that Burton feel.Keaton returns and once again impresses as batman. He isn't in that much (more than in TDKR though) but he brings a real pressence on screen. He is in my eyes the true Batman. Danny DeVito is the warped penguin and he is a very interesting, if vile, character. A great costume and make up team make him a great villain. Although he is not the crime boss from the comics, the abandoned mutant makes him a more sympathetic villain- only Aaron Eckhart is more sympathetic than penguin in the batman films. Michelle Pfeiffer is the scene stealer here as catwomen. Her demented take on the anti hero is very engaging and she has one of the coolest costumes ever. Finally Christopher Walken appears as corrupt tycoon Max Schrek. He is basically playing himself-which is awesome, as he is Christopher Walken.So we have a strong cast-what about the story? While it's morbid and dark, it's very interesting. Its complex and not realistic but is very powerful-but not uplifting. As for the production, Gotham looks as dark as it will ever look-its mostly set at night. Its a memroble setting, but not comic book-y-more Tim Burton-y. The music gets the tone of the film across very well-Danny Elfman has composed a real gem here.The action however is a bit lackluster-the music holds it together, making it seem more exciting. The biggest problem the film has is that its not a comic book movie-it does change the villains backstories, batman is slightly to immoral and the story doesn't have the simple plots or action to make it a comic book movie. Although its not the best representation of batman or comic book movies, and a disappointment compared to its predecessor, its a great watch if your into the dark worlds of Tim Burton-defiantly the dark knights darkest hour.

The main reason that Batman Returns ranks below its famous predecessor is that it fails to stand on its own. Consider The Dark Knight compared to Batman Begins. The Dark Knight stands on its own. Tim Burton's Batman Returns is definitely a very good movie, but it fails to stand on its own, expand the Batman mythos, or develop the characters.There's still a lot to like in this movie. The three Batman villains have very magnetic performances: Christopher Walken as Shreck, Danny DeVito as the Penguin, and Michelle Pfeiffer as Catwoman. All of them really steal their scenes. Tim Burton's inspiration in the set and costume design is always superb, and he brings his quirky charm to this dark yet campy Batman universe. It's the right blend of fun and tension.The pacing of the movie is a little off, some dialogue corny, some of the innuendos a little uncomfortable, but this film rises above all that with great performances, great action, a fantastic score, memorable characters, and a great Batman movie. If you like Batman (1989), this is a good follow-up that doesn't quite match the original.

Batman Returns is a perfect film to watch during the holiday season as the winter/Christmas atmosphere that Burton creates for Gotham City is wonderful. It's weird that Warner decided to release this as a summer film. It doesn't fit.What's even weirder, when you consider the content of this film, is that it was aimed at families. An upper-class couple throws their mutant baby down the sewer, a socio-phobic billionaire dresses up in leather as a flying rodent, a lonely secretary has a mental breakdown and dresses up in leather as a feline, and said grown-up mutant baby freak runs for political office while being backed by a Trump-like business tycoon hungry for more power. Not to mention the S&M subtext that Tim Burton somehow managed to get away with. His eccentric visual style fits this film best, and is the height of his career, IMO. This is Tim Burton at his Tim Burtoniest.This is a true live-action incarnation of the comic-book character and Burton really should have stayed with the series to keep it on the correct course before it crashed and burned. Batman Returns is not as grown-up and straight-faced as the Dark Knight, but it's more atmospheric, and I just prefer the oddball character development here and Nolan's movies took themselves very, VERY seriously, almost to a fault. They are often depressing to watch while Burton's approach, and the animated series that it inspired, continues to resonate and find new fans.Darker and more violent than the first movie, the sense of Gothic pathos reaches a new high. I was quite keen on Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne, he displayed the right balance of weirdo loner and cool crime fighter. Michelle Pfieffer is amazing as Catwoman (much sexier and more 'realistically' cat-like), she wears that leather outfit better than the embarrassment of Anne Hathaway, who was simply appalling. Danny DeVito is so convincing as the Penguin that his scenes become a little disturbing to watch. Special mention must be made of Christopher Walken, who is brilliant as the spooky Max Shreck if you think you recognize his Chip Shrek it's none other than Butterfinger from Hudson Hawk (fitting, as co-writer Daniel Waters is the man responsible for turning that movie from an adventure heist into an absurdist comedy).Sam Hamm returns to pen the screenplay, this time without being restricted (and sabotaged) by writers strike deadlines and it's a stronger film with a better assortment of characters, chemistry, and dialogue. He even manages to get in a subtle dig at the shortcomings of the rewritten 1989 screenplay by criticising Alfred for letting Vicki Vale into the Batcave - something Alfred would never do but was necessary for fixing structure problems.Danny Elfman's score is also even better than it was first time round. His powerful and engaging themes define the Batman universe better than any other composer. No offense to Hans Zimmer, who made some wonderful stuff for Nolan's movies, but Elfman gave Batman a sonic aura that became world renowned and it will always be THE defining Batman sound. This movie is the Batman phenomenon at its Zenith. Stick to the animated series and forget the following sequels. Christopher Nolan brought integrity back to the series, but before Schumacher destroyed it, Burton gave the original series integrity too and I miss this twisted fairy tale incarnation of the character.An essential Christmas film, and my favorite Batman adventure.

33 years after being thrown in a sewer by his high society parents, Oswald Cobblepot aka The Penguin (Danny DeVito) has been raised by sewer penguins and now runs a gang of former circus performers called the Red Triangle Gang. Unscrupulous business man Max Shreck (Christopher Walken) is pushing Gotham City to build a power plant which in actuality is a capacitor that will syphon off energy from Gotham. When Schreck's put-upon secretary Selina Kyle (Michelle Pfeiffer) discovers Schreck's plan, Schreck throws her off a building, but she survives and suffering a psychotic break takes on the alias of Catwoman intent on taking revenge on Schreck. The Penguin having amassed a collection of blackmail materials regarding Schreck orchestrates a plan to attain power and prestiege in Gotham with Schreck's help, and while most of Gotham is sold on the image of Penguin Schreck has helped sell, Bruce Wayne (Michael Keaton) is not and believes Penguin is connected to the Red Triangle Gang terrorizing Gotham. As Bruce investigates as Batman he crosses paths with Catwoman who unbeknownst to him is his love interest Selina Kyle.Following the smash success of 1989's Batman, Warner Bros. Was eager to get a sequel from the same creative team. Burton filmed the critically acclaimed and commercially successful Edward Scissorhands and was hesitant on doing a sequel to Batman, but Warner Bros. Enticed Burton back with more creative control than the first film. While original Batman screenwriter Sam Hamm had written an early draft involving The Penguin and Catwoman searching Gotham for hidden treasure, Burton hired Heathers screenwriter Daniel Waters having been impressed by his work. The movie was critically successful as well as commercially so but the box office was a significant sum less than the previous film making $150 million less. Audiences were also not as receptive to the film with a massive parental backlash against the violence and sexualization of Catwoman that resulted in McDonalds ending its Happy Meal promotional tie-in with the film. To this day Batman Returns is a divisive entry in the movie with some appreciating it's bold, dark and bitterly ironic leanings while others call it a shapeless mess of a movie with lack of focus or direction. For me Batman Returns is a mess, but it's an ambitious mess.Regardless of what your feelings are on the movie as a whole, Batman Returns isn't a rehash sequel. From it's Christmas setting to its freakshow antagonists seldom a moment goes by in Batman Returns without some kind of visually magnetic oddity or "wait a minute, what!?" moment that it's pretty much guaranteed you'll stay engaged in the film. The production design has some unique elements such as The Penguins abandoned Zoo hideout but Gotham feels a lot smaller and emptier this time around with most of the action set around Gotham Square where the city's Christmas tree is situated and the surrounding streets when we do see them are strangely empty. Despite the first film having half the budget of Returns, Gotham felt like a living breathing metropolis with lots of bustling activity and there's not all that much of that here. With that said, despite clearly being a set it's a very well dressed set and they get some solid if goofy usage from it.The story of Batman Returns is both weirdly engaging and pretty boring. Max Schreck is arguably the primary antagonist in this film and despite being played by Christopher Walken his plan of building a capacitor disguised as a power plant to syphon Gotham's power grid doesn't make much sense and it's pretty underwhelming. Danny DeVito is well cast as the Penguin and despite being under several layers of make-up and prosthetics DeVito is giving his all to the performance. Batman Returns is largely responsible for the impression of Penguin as a gross rotund freak in comparison to his original intention being a gangster who was a send-up of high society "gentlemen". There's very little of The Penguin's "high society" attitude on display with a minor subplot of Penguin running for mayor probably about as close as we get to it while the rest of the time Penguin runs around in a filth and sweat stained onesy snarling through black teeth like a mixture of a overgrown baby and a rabid beast. The Penguin is odd in this movie, the movie plays his story of abandonment for tragedy and pathos, and yet he's also a sneering perverted, sadist who we're supposed to root against leaving the character in this weird limbo where he's too pathetic to hate but he's also too hateful to be sympathetic. Selina Kyle/Catwoman is no longer a thief and is instead the mousey, overburdened secretary whose character type will serve as trope in several Superhero movies after this one. According to Daniel Waters "Sam Hamm went back to the way comic books in general treat women, like fetishy sexual fantasy. I wanted to start off just at the lowest point in society, a very beaten down secretary"...certainly big words for a guy whose script plays up the sexuality of Catwoman with emphasized Dominatrix BDSM overtones. If you're going to make a statement like that maybe don't do so while also approaching the character in a way that's only slightly less sexualized than when Frank Miller turned her into a literal prostitute in Batman: Year One.You've probably noticed I haven't spoken much about Batman in this review of Batman Returns. Well that's because Batman is pretty much a secondary character. In terms of importance placed on characters it probably goes The Penguin, Catwoman, Schreck, and then Bruce Wayne/Batman. Since Batman avenged his parents murder by killing Joker in the last movie, Burton clearly has no idea what to do with him so Batman just goes around doing what he does because it's what he's supposed to do. Most of the initial focus of the movie is on the freakshow antagonists (and Max Schreck) with Batman really only making borderline cameo appearances in the first hour. Eventually the movie does incorporate him some more with Bruce Wayne and Selina Kyle starting a relationship with neither knowing the other is Batman or Catwoman respectively and it's a solid set-up for a conflict that the movie drags its heels in getting to. Batman Returns is a Batman movie made by someone who considers Batman the least interesting character in the film. Yes an action movie is only as good as it's villains, but that doesn't mean you scale back the hero to the barest possible minimum.Batman Returns has moments of brilliance in it and as a viewing experience with its twisted take on Christmas and macabre depressing imagery it's guaranteed you'll remember it. The movie's main antagonist of Max Schreck isn't interesting and the lack of Batman in place of focus on the villains is frusturating. But the performances by DeVito, Pfeiffer, and even Keaton despite reduced presence are still strong enough to make an engaging product. I can't say I liked it, but I will remember it and didn't hate it so do with that what you will.

Out of all the Bat-films, Batman Returns is my favorite.  This beautiful, dark, and funny film is one of Tim Burton's best work. Although it is much violent and darker, this is the Batman that creator Bob Kane envisioned many years ago.  Michael Keaton reprises his role as the avenger of Gotham City. This time he's up against two deadly foes, Danny Devito's Penguin and Michelle Pfeiffer's Catwoman.  With a great cast and film score by Danny Elfman, the movie takes us on an adventure as Batman battles the evil forces that are trying to take over Gotham City.  Christopher Walken makes a great appearance as Max Shrek, a shrewd businessman who has an evil scheme up his sleeve.  But of course, Michelle Pfeiffer is the one that steals the show. With all of these components, you have a film that will blow you away. This is the reason why you go to the movies.  It's got everything.  It's really a shame that Tim Burton didn't get to direct the other sequels.  If so I think the franchise would still be going strong today.  Batman Returns is an awesome experience for fans that like cool movies.

Batman Returns (1992)I've seen this version of Batman a few times now, over the years, and in many ways it's the best of them all, along with the companion 1989 "Batman." And in some key ways, both of these fall just short of quite gelling into classics.Here's why, both ways.First, remembering Batman as a comic book hero, Tim Burton's version of that world is wonderfully exaggerated and fanciful and actually comic. This is the biggest difference (in my humble view) with the Nolan films of the last decade. Where Burton sees a chance to be inventive and playful, Nolan sees a chance to make the unbelievable real.It's a relief that there is no reality to Burton's world. Sometimes you can tell the movie was shot on a set—and the same set, rather a lot—but that's again part of the "world" we are drawn into.Characters for Burton are about excess just beyond camp. The Penguin is pretty amazing—Danny DeVito pulls it off like no one else could, an equal to Jack Nicholson's Joker from Burton's earlier Batman flick. And Catwoman as played by Michelle Pfeiffer is terrific. Batman himself might be a matter of taste—many people prefer Michael Keaton but I find him dull. And in this movie, he mostly stands around as Bruce Wayne and drives around as Batman. Not much physicality here.Christopher Walken? He starts off being weird and wonderful and then kind of keeps that steady state attitude throughout (even as his world is in constant tumult). It works, but it's not perfect. In fact that's what happens a lot of the time. Some of the "action" sequences aren't as elegantly edited (or shot) as other similar films (especially Nolan's) and so there is energy but not necessarily a visceral involvement. (You have to be thinking about this while watching it, I suppose.)But it's Burton's idea of Gotham, and his development of characters, that makes the movie really special. Whatever its limitations, it has so much that goes beyond expectations—and beyond the somber grandiosity of the Nolan versions—you really need to see it.

Ah, Batman Returns, is it possible to have a sequel to be almost as good as the original? With Batman Returns, it came pretty close! We have terrific actors and a great plot with the dark knight and two new villains, Catwoman and The Penguin. We have Michael Keaton back as Batman and he's still awesome than ever. Michelle Pfieffer, the perfect choice for Catwoman and was perfectly cast into place. As much as I love and is such an incredible actress Annette Benning, she couldn't have been Catwoman, she doesn't really have the look. Danny DeVito, who could have imagined him as The Penguin? He was just great and terrifying! Batman returns with a more loving community of Gotham City, they are celebrating Christmas time with, Max Shrek played by a creepy Christopher Walken. The perfect villain who mistreats his lovely secretary, Selina who happens to hear too much at his office causing him to push her out the window in hopes that she dies and will never reveal the information of knowing the Penguin and the attempt to make him loved in Gotham. When she survives and is awakened by cats, she wants revenge and is ready to go at it with her cats! But there is also another active villain, The Penguin who is in search of his parents that abandoned him and now he is looking to be the new mayor of Gotham City! Can Batman be able to stop both super villains from creating their hanous acts and stop the mayor from destroying the city as well?You'll have to see! Batman Returns is just as good as the original Batman, despite the first one remaining the true classic, this one still takes you for a ride. And come on, I mean we've got Michelle in leather! Her classic moment of just meeting Batman and The Penguin "Meow" is classic! There are memorable characters, lines, and sets! You'll have a blast! Trust me! 9/10

I don't know why critics cal it bizarre and macabre. I really don't. Dark -yes, bizarre - no. It i s sad and with lots of emotions, specially with the Pinguin's story. They say it has elements of S&M but I really don't find anything of that sort except for Catwoman's whip.This movie is deeper than its genre and villains aren't just some crazy freaks dressed like on a masquerade. They have strong motives with strong feelings involved. Catwoman (a great performance by Michelle Pfeifer!) isn't just a sexy chick who likes steeling jewels - she's on her personal crusade and Pinguin... well, by the end of the movie you really feel sorry for him (strong performance by Danny DeVito). Again, I think Michael Keaton is the best Batman and he carries his costume well.You can totally see that it is a Tim Burton movie, because he has an unusual style and is a very talented guy. But also the music is fantastic and fits the emotions.

Batman Returns came at a time when Tim Burton and Danny Elfman had become a superstar team and forgot what landed them there. Whereas films like Pee Wee's Big Adventure and Beetlejuice had lots of over-the-top set pieces, surreal themes and bounding music, they also had a lot of good heart, charm, fresh ideas and fun storylines.Batman Returns is pure style over substance, and the style isn't even pleasant to look at or listen to. It's dirty, gritty and alienating. None of Batman's gadgets or action scenes feel exciting, inventive or original, and yet they're presented as if they were. You often feel like you're missing something, but no, there just isn't much there once you strip away the surrealist style and bombastic sounds.In contrast to Nicholsan's Joker, there's zero charisma in DeVito's Penguin nor Michelle Pfieffer's Catwoman. And in the latter's case, her looks, which are covered up most of the time, can't save her.Speaking of sound, Danny Elfman shows zero restraint and just can't help but cram his bombastic soundtrack into your ears even when nothing on the screen warrants it. It quickly wears you out and you occasionally feel the need to cover your ears just to get a break from it. The opening score is suitably epic and memorable, and that's not the problem. It's in the music score throughout the rest. Every single little thing elicits these overly loud baritone romps that stop being a soundtrack and instead become rather obvious attempts to make the audience pay attention to the soundtrack more than the film itself. At least in the first Batman, Elfman's score gets a break during Prince's music tracks. Not so, here. It's non-stop and over-saturated, and your ears will beg for it to stop.While Burton and Elfman are trying to one-up each other - Burton with visual style and Elfman with music - Burton forgot he was actually supposed to tell a story and have compelling characters. His self-indulgence tanks the entire film. It doesn't work as an action film and it doesn't work as a stylistic film. It just sucks. And because it's so loud, you can't just close your eyes and tune it out to feel like you got your money's worth. It won't let you.I worked at a movie theater when Batman Returns was in theaters, and the very best part of it is the song Face to Face by Siouxsie and the Banshees which plays during the closing credits. It's the only time in the whole experience of this movie you don't feel like it's trying to blast you out of the theater with its visuals and obnoxious soundtrack. I remember people exiting the theater looking tired and disoriented, feeling like they were supposed to like what they just watched, but confused about why they didn't.Batman Returns was a box office success, but critical viewers knew it was not a great film and you can only make so many of those before the audience will turn on you. I don't think Burton made another film that truly follows up his earlier work until Big Fish in 2003. Burton and Elfman are the classic example of great talents that need a steady and restraining hand for them to perform at their best.

As a life-long mega Bat-fan, I thought that Batman Returns did the best job (of all four films) of portraying the Dark Knight. Sure, the 1989's Batman was great, but it was lopsided; it might as well have been called "Joker" considering the focus of the film. Batman Returns allowed us a better look at Batman/Bruce Wayne himself, who was little more than an imposing supporting cast member in the first film; I loved Jack Nicholson's over-the-top performance, but THIS fanboy wanted more of the Caped Crusader in the film. Batman Returns gave us that and more...we got Batman/Bruce character development, the AWESOME give-and-take between Batman and Catwoman (one of the strangest courtships in comics), and Burton even tossed us a little bit of fun, dark humor with Shreck and the Penguin. Everyone's performances maintained consistent characterizations that came across beautifully as both mad and tragic; Keaton was subtly psychotic, Pfeiffer was fatally seductive, Walken was deliciously megalomaniacal, and DeVito was unwaveringly grotesque. Everyone pulled off their characters with gusto and memorable appeal. Though not as dark and gritty as the first film, "Returns" captured the subtle madness that permeates Gotham City. When you compare "Returns" to the other Batman films, it is easy to see that it gives Batman's world the touch of underlying insanity (as only Burton can capture) that the first film lacked (where was the Joker's twisted sense of humor?) and the last two increasingly turned into the Three Stooges ("Chicks dig the car"!?!). Batman Returns excelled in that it was a dark, disturbingly insane portrait of Batman and Gotham City; a film that carefully balances on the fine line where and darkness and madness meet. For those movie lovers brave enough to try walking that line, I recommend this film.

Having seen off the evil Joker, the Caped Crusader now has to deal with with two other deadly foes to keep Gotham City safe. The crazy mutant like Penguin and the power crazy megalomaniac in waiting Max Shreck. But wait, just who is this women dressed up like a cat? Friend or Foe? Seems the Dark Knight has a lot on his hands this Christmas.In 1989 director Tim Burton rekindled the super hero genre for Warner Brothers with his take on Batman. Made for $35 million, recouping over that in its opening weekend, the film went on to make a Worldwide profit of over $375 million. The sequel of course was inevitable, as was the return of Burton, even if he dallied around trying to bluff that he would only return if a script was fresh and exciting. Sure enough, and with Burton getting the script he wanted from Daniel Waters, Batman Returns turned over a profit of over $185 million. Thus ensuring that further franchise instalments were to follow, even if, as it turned out, Burton didn't.Batman Returns is more breezy than its predecessor, not in humour terms, but in action. In fact for a genre so steeped in sense of humour, Returns is surprisingly devoid of comedy. A charge of both Burton & Waters taking things a little too seriously is hard to argue against. But that's not to decry the good things that run abound in the film. Burton's trademark Gothics exist all told, and it has its darkness, both in themes and in actual visuals. All of course accompanied by a whirling Danny Elfman score. But what of the story itself? Well this perhaps would have been better served as being titled something along the lines of "The Penguin Cometh," for make no fish bones about it, this is the Penguin movie. Batman and Catwoman are in essence just playing henchman and henchwoman, with Max Shrek serving only as plot device that's saying the real villains of our world don't wear masks or costumes. A bold move by Burton to have the Penguin as the lead protagonist, one that financially paid off. But one that ultimately turned many away from revisits for its perceived un- family friendly being. Guilty as charged said Burton, it's his vision and he stands by it. Thus Batman Returns stands up as the most adult of the four Batman movies made in the modern wave from 1989 to 1997. Quite a feat when you consider the film is set during the bastion of all family holidays! Sadly what was to follow would be kiddie friendly fodder served up by Joel Schumacher-reaching a crushing and chronic nadir with Batman & Robin.The cast are mostly excellent, Keaton does what he can in what is ultimately now a cog in a big wheel role. While Max Shreck gets to play Christopher Walken with relish and oratory menace (yes I did it on purpose). However, it's with Michell Pfeiffer's Catwoman & Danny Devito's Penguin that the film reaches its acting heights. Pfeiffer plays it mousey for Selina Kyle and then leaps at the chance to vamp it up as the delicious Catwoman. With a sultry miaow here and a tippy tappy skip there, this Cat is all in one sexy and very dangerous, something poor Bats is going to have to contend with. But it's DeVito's show all the way. Charged with having to follow Jack Nicholson's film stealing turn from the first film, DeVito immerses himself in the role of the pathetic, deformed, yet dangerously criminal Penguin. It's a monstrous creation fit to grace any modern day horror movie, with DeVito's physicality proving a necessity for the mutant flippered one who was raised in the sewers. If only Danny had been given more opportunities like this to show his talent.There's many missteps in here too, though. Burton is no master of directing action, and some of the one liners shoe-horned in are poor and pointless. While the whole birth of Catwoman story arc just isn't explained in any way. In fact it's all a bit lazy in truth. Burton though, remains a film maker with his own visual flair, his layering of atmosphere as Gotham is on the brink of collapse is expertly crafted. He has stuff to say and he's going to have fun saying said stuff. Often frustrating he can be for sure, but always he carries a uniqueness into many of his films. Batman Returns is no different in that respect. 7/10

A nice follow-up to blockbuster fantasy epic that renewed Hollywood's faith in media blitzing. Batman returns contains a lot of noisy action ,thrills, chills and dazzling production design. The caped crusader is back in Gotham City, where even the criminals are afraid to walk the streets alone. There's a new breed of criminals in Gotham City led the the sinister the Penguin. While Batman (Michael Keaton) deals with a deformed man calling himself the Penguin (Danny DeVito) wreaking havoc across Gotham with the help of a cruel businessman (Christopher Walken), a female employee (Michelle Pfeiffer) of the latter becomes the Catwoman with her own revenge. From the Sewers of Gotham, and New Villain Emerges. From the Rooftops of Gotham, the Purrrfect Enemy Comes to Life. And the Only One Who Can Save this City, is a Creature of the Night. While She Craves a Romance She can Sink Her Claws Into, He Plots a Fowl Reign of Destruction, Above Gotham, Looms Its Greatest Hero.This is a dynamic, fast- paced and entertaining movie. Full of action , it's complemented by violent images, thriller and breathtaking scenes with overwhelming fights and traditional FX along with brief computer generator special effects. The dark story is made believable and the script has more pace to it than former film Batman (1989). The picture relies on terrific flying sequences, impressive struggles, black humor and breathtaking pursuits. More of the same from director Tim Burton with Batman more of a supporting role overshadowed by provocative villains. With Danny DeVito cruely misshapen Penguin who seeks to role over Gotham City. Michelle Pfeiffer is the dangerous and exotic Catwoman who has more than a passing personal interest in Batman and Christopher Walken in the maniacal tycoon Max Shreck. Keaton is surprisingly good as the dual personality hero though Pfeiffer steals the show, she fares best in her wickedly sexy character and second-skin costume completed with bullwhip.The motion picture was well directed by Tim Burton. Being preceded by ¨Batman¨ (1989) with similar cast : Michael Keaton , Michael Gough, Jack Nicholson , Kim Basinger , Robert Wuhl , Tracey Walter , Pat Ingle , Jack Palance. Followed by ¨Batman and Robin¨ (1997) by Joel Schumacher with Val Kilmer, Chris O'Donnell, Uma Thurman, Alicia Silverstone , Michael Gough , Arnie, Pat Ingle , John Glover. And ¨Batman Forever¨ (1995) by Joel Schumacher with George Clooney, Chris O'Donnell, Jim Carrey , Nicole Kidman , Drew Barrymore , Deby Mazar , Don Dragon Wilson, among others .

All people always say that this is one of the best sequels ever but I don't agree at all but this first one could have been very beautiful much more if some things were handled well So I'll explain a few things to you We all know that Tim Burton doesn't do at allsequels and for this reason the director really wanted this film to be completely separate from the first and for this reason there were not many references to the previous film Ah for example he never mentions the Jokers and yet he really made a mess in Gotham City and so on of dementia II understand that the character of Vicky is no longer there because they made him leave the city think about Valla but what happened to Harvey Dent he disappeared and then he should be the most important character in Gotham City and instead he isn't there it's true but we'll see it again in the next filmSo let's say the positive things Gotham City is much darker than the previous film Another thing I like is the penguin I like it a lot But in this version he is really a monster seen and how he is made but he hates everyone because he hasn't received good things since he was bornanother positive thing Batman I already told you in a previous review but now let's move on to some things that don't make me shout better the sequels let's say the negative things you're the Penguin I gave him ok But you can't say the same thing about the others two villains starting with max Shrek I haveonly found a terrible villain and then I'm not crazy about his motivations for being evil this villain is to be rejected but at the top Villain that I don't like at all is Catwoman everyone says that she is one of the most beautiful villains of Batman films sorry but I'm sorry I just found him to be a terrible villainI'm not crazy about this villain But how they made her in the film she's just hateful but everyone doesn't say but this Catwoman seems crazier to me than the Joker Yes because she makes it even worse everything makes it much worse and you can't understand one thing it's over because in the end it seems like it's gone, it's nothe understands if she's disappeared or dead since she got electrocuted to kill Shrek but another one is the last negative thing Which doesn't really make sense if in the first film Batman held his own he has a lot of people but in this second film he can't hold his own a woman be taken Yet in the firsthe didn't even let himself be touched and instead he receives a lot of blows it's a scratch I'm sorry This is power they were wasted for these mistakes But this doesn't mean I hate this film this film is promoted
to conclude rating 6.

This sequel proves that Tim Burton was for all intents and purposes THE best choice to ever direct a Batman movie. The story focuses on Baman taking on three enemies: The Penguin (wonderfully played by Danny DeVito) Catwoman (the slinky Michelle Pfeiffer) and Max Shreck (the superb Christopher Walken).Perhaps the best entry in the series, it has it all: complex themes, complex characters and a dark tone that truly stands out. The cast is simply wonderful although the obvious stand-out is DeVito as the multi-layered Penguin. Here is a guy who is evil, pitiable, funny and perhaps most importantly, scary. The infamous scene with Shreck's image consultants still sends shivers up my spine. In other words, the cast is simply a joy to watch and all turn in first rate performances.I do not hesitate to say that "Batman Returns" is my favorite of all the Batmans released (sorry, Dark Knight fans). If you want a superhero film that has a little more to offer besides flashy effects and big scale action, then please check out this badly underrated film. If nothing else, it's at least the best film Tim Burton has ever made.

You know those films you watched when growing up, that you thought were SO amazing, but when you go back and re-watch them, you realise they're not all they're cracked up to be? Well...this is one of those films. It's the very definition of "style over substance". Sure, it LOOKS great, and yes, it *does* have a memorable theme provided by Danny Elfman, but having said that...there's still plot holes aplenty (big enough to drive a Batmobile through). Where to begin? Let's start with the obvious ones: Since when are their penguins living in the sewers? How does a mutant baby penguin-child survive in said sewers, and where in the WORLD does he find both goons and high-tech gizmos exactly? Let's not even get into the part involving penguins with rockets on their backs. Seem unlikely? Not half as unlikely as a lonely secretary (sorry...ASSISTANT) getting shoved out of a high-rise building, plummeting to her apparent "death", only to be brought back to life by a clutter of cats (who appear from seemingly nowhere) via some sort of bizarre cat ritual that involves them jumping over her prone body and chewing on her fingers. This results in her being turned talcum powder white, acting like a zombie and then going all "crazy" at home (her poor stuffed animals meet a grisly end in the garbage disposal). Despite having "died" and then resurrecting, she still manages to create an entire home-stitched dominatrix catsuit (complete with cowl and gloves) out of a single black vinyl jacket. She both feels and LOOKS "so much yummier". Her resurrection also granted her martial arts skills, the ability to wield a whip with expert proficiency and the urge to randomly blow up buildings. Resurrection via kitty bite RULES! I guess feline saliva has some amazing properties in it? Kitty spit is made of AWESOME.Catwoman's not the only one to defy death, though. The Penguin manages to survive his entire sewer lair collapsing on him long enough to drool black-green goo and deliver some lame last line before he falls down dead (finally!) and is miraculously carried into the water by his army of penguins. This is, of course, after he's managed to not only convince all of Gotham that he's some sort of "hero" who just wants to find out about his heritage, but somehow be in the running for Mayor. I guess it's not *that* hard...when it appears that all of Gotham are grade A morons. Didn't they learn anything from the Joker? I guess the Penguin's just smarter than the average Gothamite (he *does* somehow acquire the technology needed to deactivate Batman's Batmobile armour and tamper with it after all. Not to mention he has a vast array of trick umbrellas - talk about fancy technology. He hooks the handle of one of these special umbrellas - that doubles as a mini helicopter - around Catwoman's neck and sends her her up, up and away at one point...simply for rejecting his icky advances. I felt sorry for Catwoman there, but on the plus side, she got to fly over Gotham City's skyline and see the sights).Someone whose the total opposite of that^ and is completely incapable of having fun is Batman himself. Bruce Wayne just sits in his dimly-lit mansion, in a constant state of broodiness, doing absolutely *nothing* until he sees the Bat-Signal in the sky - at which point he's all pursed lips and dramatic head-turns. What a boring Batman! You'd think he'd be playing poker with Alfred at least, but no, he's just waiting for the signal, in a constant broody mood. When he puts on the Bat-suit, however, his mood shifts to...glum. Seriously, his mouth is turned downwards (when he's Batman) to such an extent that it looks like a muppet mouth. His Batmobile - which you can tell was solely designed with the idea of what a great toy it'd make for kids in mind - is ready for ANY occasion. Why should Penguin be the only one with unbelievable technology? As far as the actors go, Keaton doesn't have much to do besides scowl. DeVito is pretty nasty in his Penguin make-up and gives a nicely creepy performance. Walken (as Selina's tycoon boss, Max Shreck) and his crazy grey hair - which looks like the result of too much electricity - is the very definition of "arch". He actually twiddles his fingers in an evil manner at one point. ALL the characters spout cringe-worthy dialogue at some time or another, with varying degrees of success.The one who comes out on top, of course, is Miss. Selina Kyle herself - Michelle Pfeiffer. She is the definitive Catwoman, no matter what anybody else says. Yes, her origin story may vary from that of the comic book character or whatever, but it's of little importance. Pfeiffer exudes sexiness. She rises above the movie's shortcomings to bring us a memorable villainess/anti-hero, who encourages women to stand up for themselves, by gum! She makes the transformation from lonely, frustrated, slightly bumbling secretary (who gives us monologues - out loud - about her love life...or lack thereof), into a back-flipping, whip-cracking (and sometimes jump-roping), stun-gunning dominatrix capable of fitting an entire canary in her gob (I wonder how the bird managed not to suffocate in there?) - and you can't help but love every minute of it. Even when she rather foolishly lets herself get shot multiple times - just to prove a point - but soldiers on, rhyming as she does so. Shreck finally has a reason for his hair looking like that of the Doc's (from Back To The Future) there at the end, when there's some sparkage between him and Selina. Pfeiffer completely owns the part, and it's a relief to see her pop up into frame just before the credits roll (somehow having repaired her cowl - which had previously had holes in it that bits of her wild mane stuck out from). Meow indeed.

One of the darker films ever made. It is one of my personal favorite Batman movies. Batman Returns is dark, violent and a worthy sequel to the 1989 Batman. Danny DeVito gave a brilliant performance as The Penguin. The only two good things in this movie are return of Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne/Batman and Danny DeVito as The Penguin. I thought classic original Batman (1989) was way better film than this. Batman Returns is my second favorite Batman film in the franchise. The film has a many problems in here I didn't like and it annoys me, but there are other things I did like and love in the second installment.Things I don't like in this film: Michelle Pfeiffer as Selina Kyle/ Catwoman she was extremely violent woman. I still couldn't believe how could an grown aged woman act like a child, trying to be an animal and than she just rip off a harmless pet rubber animals stuff them in a sinker , destroying a doll house, spraying a t-shirt and than acting that she is the queen in this movie? She wasn't written and portrayed by the comic books like was Anne Hathaway in The Dark Knight Rises. Selina Kyle was never a secretary like she was in Shreck Company, she wasn't a vigilante, violent or angry woman. She was a cat burglar and a thief. She didn't went around cutting people like she did in this film, she only did what was necessary to do for survival. That is the main problem in this film. I still prefer and think Kim Basinger is much better better actress than Michelle Pfeifer is and I still love Vicky Vale much better than Selina Kyle. Sorry Bat fans. I wish there wouldn't be Max Shreck in this film because he look's like a selfish lunatic person. Those are the main problems I don't like in this film, that is why this movie is not better than his superior predecessor. Things I do like in this film:The Action sequences are outstanding and awesome and Fight sequences are fantastic. The first fight between Batman and Catwoman is awesome. The film is very dark which I love that in the film. Michael Keaton reprise his role back as Bruce Wayne/Batman. It is my childhood film and I will always watch it. It was a big hit in 1992 when the film come out, there were different times then, than they are today. The story centers around Christmas Eve. The Penguin, releases several bats that fly frantically around the girl's (Ice Princess) head, causing her to lose her balance and fall, but giving the impression that Batman, visible to the crowd below, had pushed her. She lands on the tree switch, lighting it up and unleashing a flurry of bats that the Penguin had hidden within the branches. Batman attempts to flee. I love that Batman flees in this film around Bats flying the crowd. It shows his symbol stands for Bat which he is a Batman. He also try to save that girl when she was kidnapped but couldn't. The Penquin and Catwoman becomes alley and they set up Batman to be a criminal. I love how The Penguin had placed a control device under the car that let he himself steer it from an arcade-style car hidden in a trailer. Batman, helpless, is trapped behind the wheel of the Batmobile as it veers through the streets, knocking over city property and frightening citizens. Batman manages to remove the control device before anyone is killed, and returns home. That is the best awesome scene I have seen. Batskiboat using in this film that batman drives on the sewer was FANTASTIC! Beside Batmobil there was other vehicle used in this film. Batman saving all the children from Penquin was also awesome. Batman was a real hero in this film. There was no Robin in here. Which I am happy about it. Batman does not need any sidekick to help him out. I hate Robin, don't get me wrong I don't like that character and I never did. Michael Keaton Is excellent as Bruce Wayne/Batman his acting performance to me in both Burton films is better than Christian Bale is. Michael Keaton's Bruce Wayne was a clearly uncomfortable man, a mumbling solitary eccentric, ill at ease in his own skin and with other people. In the Batsuit, though, he becomes the beast he really is, an imposing personification of vengeance and fear, despite his slighter frame. There's something far more sympathetic about Keaton's Bruce Wayne. Maybe it's because he was never recorded throwing a wobbler on set. Tim Burton did a great job directing and producing the second Batman film. I love the costume designer by Bo Welch for Catwoman, Batman and Penquin. J. P. Morgan's wardrobe was used for inspiration on Max Shreck's costume design. I think those three actors Michael Keaton, Danny DeVito and Michelle Pfeifer did a great character chemistry and good acting performance. CGI was also not bad for the bats I real love it. I love this film not as much as I love The Dark Knight and Batman but I still love it. The rating I give to this film is 10/10. Anything under 7 would be ridiculous, as anyone claiming this isn't at least a GOOD action film.

"Batman Returns" brought Tim Burton back to the Batman franchise after 1989's incredibly successful first outing. The movie proved to be a financial success but opinion is divided on whether or not the movie lived up to its now iconic predecessor.This time around, Batman (Michael Keaton) faces off against a pair of his longtime nemeses - the Penguin (Danny DeVito) and Catwoman (Michelle Pfeiffer). Plot-wise, the Penguin teams up with a corrupt businessman (Christopher Walken) in order to essentially take control of Gotham City. Catwoman, meanwhile, has her own reasons for getting in on the action.I find that "Batman Returns" has a more pronounced Tim Burton feel than "Batman", which isn't surprising considering that he was given more creative control. Whether that's a good or a bad thing for the movie is subject to debate. Personally, I find that this is where the franchise started gravitating towards the cartoonish aspects of the character's universe, which would only get worse with the poorly regarded third & fourth films.The cast is pretty decent but it's tough to fill the hole left by Jack Nicholson. Nevertheless, Danny DeVito is effective as the Penguin and Michelle Pfeiffer is alluring as the leather-clad Catwoman. Christoper Walken, meanwhile, supplies a typically Christopher Walken-esque performance as only he can. Unfortunately, one of the drawbacks of introducing all of these characters is that Batman himself is noticeably absent for most of the beginning of the movie.Burton's direction is solid as always but the visuals just seem to lack something in comparison to the first film. Perhaps it's the Christmas setting or maybe it's just that the production design in general isn't as ominous. At least they were able to get Danny Elfman back to handle the music again.Ultimately, I think that "Batman Returns" is a decent follow-up but no match for the first movie. Saying that it's better than "Batman Forever" and "Batman & Robin" doesn't count for much but I would say that it's a reasonably entertaining superhero movie, all things considered. It's just that, with the glut of superhero movies in recent years, it's no longer particularly remarkable.

Many of us find art agreeable only when the masterpiece itself touches something deep inside us. That is, the completed creation can only be accepted and appreciated if we can somehow personally relate to it. It was winter, here in Australia 1992 when I had seen Batman Returns at the cinemas and it blew me away. Both "me's". I was supposed to belong to an ideal, a standard, but at the same time I was living another life. Tim Burton was the first film maker to say its OK for a comic movie to be dark and to confess that darkness can happen to us all. After Tim Burton's Batman interpretations, many other dark comic book heroes and anti-heroes flooded the cinemas. Comic book folklore for decades had told of friendly, likable heroes with dashingly handsome smiles and magical superpowers who fly in the sky, and spun powerful webs from their wrists and wore red boots and had the strength of a locomotive. But what happens when you are only ten years old and you see your parents coldly executed in front of your very eyes? You snap. Somewhere in your psyche,your young tender psychological make up breaks apart. The only way such pain and hurt can be managed is to create an alternate persona.You make a promise. Your other self will be stronger, harness all the anger all the rage to use whatever means available to avenge the innocence of your parents onto that criminal, those criminals, any criminal. This is life seen through Bruce Wayne's eyes. Both pairs. The world he sees is dark, gloomy, and cold. Although he patrols the streets and people hear him cruise by, they don't rush out to get his autograph. He is their Saviour, not the winner of a personality contest. Batman Returns is about losers. Batman, for yet another Christmas, remains "the only lonely man beast in town". Bruce Wayne never gets to lawfully arrest the vile Max Shreck. The Penguin never gets to unleash his pain of being discarded by his parents onto the citizens of Gotham, and Selina Kyle is forever lost to being mentally fragmented and traumatized. And the hero doesn't get the girl- or cat.This movie delves into the desire in all of us to want so desperately to belong, to have a home, as expressed by Bruce Wayne and Oswald Cobblepot.The film brings out a need in all of us to be heard, respected and not ignored as desired by Selina Kyle , Oswald and of course Bruce Wayne. But sometimes we are all suppressed in one way or another, we are told to be an ideal, to behave to a certain standard. That is until we finally snap. Only hope remains at the end of the movie as we see Catwoman rise towards the night sky. But come what may we all must wish good will towards all men and women. As for me , I cant say that I will reach a point where I will believe my problem with duality will be reconciled. But thats OK. We all have a dark side. Batman Returns is not only the best of the Batman films ,it is truly a stand out exceptionally fine masterpiece of storytelling.

Bizarre second outing for the Dark Knight that goes overboard on the darkness, but remains highly entertaining. DeVito has way too much fun, and Pfeiffer's Catwoman remains the benchmark. This film forced the overcorrection of Batman Forever and disastrous Batman and Robin. Can't help but wonder what would have happened if Burton and Keaton continued the series. 7/10.

One of the most anticipated movies in my life, and by far the biggest disappointment. It is hard to believe that Tim Burton directed both this and the original Batman. I went to see it with my brother on something like the second day it was released. The theater was jam packed, and there was a lot of chatting. When the advertisement stopped, and the movie started many people cheered. When they showed Michael Keaton for the first time, many more people cheered, it was pretty nuts. The excitement from the audience very slowly died down and at the end of the movie no-one clapped, no-one cheered, we just all cleared the full theater, most of us with dull looks on our faces.I think the worst part of the movie was the animal element. There were a bunch of bats, a bunch of cats, and a bunch of penguins. The character to take the animal mania the furthest was Catwoman. She licked herself clean, she purred, she crawled like a cat, and oh yeah, she had nine lives. Did we need any of this? Penguin in the comic books wasn't a penguin, he was a fat guy in a tuxedo. Catwoman wasn't a cat, and Batman wasn't a bat.Why must all good comic book movies have sequels that are so silly? We need more people who understand the comic books, and less people who have no problem with making them look real stupid. I'm glad that Burton stopped making Batman movies, but I'm afraid his successor did the same thing with HIS second Batman movie..