Beauty and the Beast is an engaging movie with so much care and beauty fused into its core. Beauty is much more than just an influential animated classic. It is a grand and powerful fable, sugar coated with the best animation effort in a time where CGI was becoming a movie mainstay. In its finest moments, Beauty is a rousing musical, making your head move and getting caught up right in the mix. The score is unforgettable and the characters are so easy to get into. A movie that children and adults alike will love, Disney deserved its Academy Award nominations for creating such a joy.Small town Belle longs for more than a local life, maintaining her imagination through books and taking care of her kind, yet eccentric father. But when their horse returns without papa, Belle sets out to find the awful truth in an enchanted castle.You can see that so much time and care was spent in drawing this masterpiece. I cannot think of many other movies that show such meticulous background and animation. That such effort is woven effortlessly into its songs that make Beauty and the Beast the timeless classic Disney rightfully lauds itself over. 'Be Our Guest,' 'Beauty and the Beast,' 'Gaston,' you will be humming these songs at one point in your your life! Kudos to Disney for creating a charismatic, attractive villain in Gaston. He would not be a villain if he was not such a jerk. You must watch this movie at least once in your life, in a comfortable sofa and with the sound turned right up for the Broadway scores. You will enjoy it!

Indeed, it's a tale as old as time, with a complex message that is as ageless as it is universal; but beneath all the layers it can be summed up very simply:  love one another, and refrain from judging others who `seem' to be `different.'  And leave it to Disney to present it in such a way that it can be embraced and understood by young and old alike as they have here, in one of their best animated features ever, `Beauty and the Beast,' directed by Gary Trousdale.  When a young Prince fails the test of an enchantress disguised as an old hag, she transforms him into a hideous beast, as he is destined to remain until he opens his heart and learns how to love and be loved in return.  And so that he'll know where he stands as time goes by, she gives him an enchanted rose, which will bloom until his twenty-first birthday, and he has only until the last petal falls from the flower to effect the change within himself that will be his salvation. 
	The beast, however, seems doomed, as he shuts himself away, alone in his castle, taking up a reclusive existence far from everyone and everything. Until, one day, a beautiful young woman named Belle shows up at his doorstep.  Belle is searching for her inventor father, Maurice, who disappeared while taking one of his latest inventions to the fair; and his trail leads Belle to the castle of the Beast, where she discovers he is being held prisoner, having run afoul of the Beast by trespassing while lost during the night of his journey.  Repulsed by the appearance of the Beast, Belle nevertheless strikes a bargain with him:  If he will release her father, she will stay in his place.  The Beast agrees, with the stipulation that she must remain with him forever.  And as the Beast casts Belle's father from the castle and sends him on his way, Belle's fate seems sealed. The only hope now for either Belle or the Beast lies in the remote possibility that true love may somehow prevail before the last petal of the enchanted rose falls.	With the help of a richly textured screenplay (by Linda Woolverton) that invests the characters with a depth of humanity that is often lacking even in `non' animated films, and an Oscar winning score by Alan Menken, director Trousdale provides some real insights into human nature in this retelling of the familiar story of how true love can change even the darkest and coldest of hearts.  There's magic in this film, which holds an enchantment of it's own, and the message is presented ever so subtly and with a sensitivity that draws you in gradually until you are so caught up in the story that you become immersed and totally involved without being consciously aware of it. It's a film that enfolds you and takes you where it will, and you go willingly.  A beautifully rendered and realized film that successfully transcends it's genre, it is the first animated feature ever to be recognized and rewarded with an Oscar nomination for Best Movie (quite a feat in itself, as it received the nod over such films as `The Fisher King,' `Fried Green Tomatoes,' `Thelma and Louise' and John Singleton's `Boyz N the Hood' that year).  	The talented cast supplying the voices of the characters includes Paige O'Hara (Belle), Robby Benson (The Beast), Richard White (Gaston), Jerry Orbach (Lumiere), David Ogden Stiers (Cogsworth), Angela Lansbury (Mrs. Potts), Bradley Pierce (Chip), Rex Everhart (Maurice), Jesse Corti (LeFou), Hal Smith (Phillipe), Jo Ann Worley (Wardrobe), Brian Cummings (Stove), Alvin Epstein (Bookseller) and Kimmy Robertson (Featherduster).  There's a scene in this film that is so entrancing and so emotionally involving that it stands up against the best from any drama ever made:  As Angela Lansbury (as Mrs. Potts) sings the Oscar winning title song, Belle begins to perceive the true nature of the man within the Beast; and it's no longer the cold-hearted Prince upon whom the enchantress cast her spell, because he has changed.  And as they come together and the Beast takes Belle in his arms, sweeping her in dance across the elegant ballroom floor, it becomes one of those rare cinematic `moments' that are entirely transporting, and it does, indeed, take you away.  It's a memorable scene that exemplifies the quality and craftsmanship of this film, as does the scene in which the Beast is at last transformed; that such emotion can be captured and expressed in an animated film is an exemplary accomplishment, and it's all a part of why `Beauty and the Beast' is one of Disney's all time greatest films. 
	One final note:  Stay for the credits to hear Alan Menken and Howard Ashman's title song once again, this time performed by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson.  Hypnotically beautiful, this version has a magic all it's own and makes the perfect ending to an enchanting experience.  It's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.

This is a classic movie. We have breakthrough films like Snow White and Fantasia, and we have other greats like Aladdin and The Lion King, but this definitely tops them all. There is so much here that is missing in other Disney classics. This film has emotion, incredible music and animation, characters that you admire, laugh at, and despise. This movie is a fun ride from beginning to end. We can all relate with the suffering of the Beast (being an outsider), and we all know a Gaston in our lives. The way we can identify with the characters sucks us into the story. Don't miss this classic...the only animated film to be nominated for a Best Picture Oscar.

Beauty and the Beast is without a doubt one of Disney's finest classics. The first animated film to ever be nominated for best picture and after you see it, you could understand and agree with it's nomination. Beauty and the Beast is going to be one of those films that will always be remembered, I know that it's a movie that I will show my children one day. It has unbelievably terrific animation, a beautiful story, lovable characters, and is just over all a perfect movie. I really love this film so much, I don't think anyone couldn't fall in love with it.Bell is just a simple girl in her town in France, she reads books constantly and her father is an inventor. They are sort of the outcasts of their town due to their "oddness". But Bell is being pursued by the town hunk, Gueston, simply because she's the one girl he cannot have. One day when her father's inventions are about to be displayed at the fair, he gets lost in the woods and stumbles across a castle and is held prisoner. Bell goes after him and comes to the castle; it turns out that her father is being held by a beast who is cursed with this hideousness unless he finds a true love before a rose he has welts. Bell trades places with her father; the house also has living objects, a candle holder, a clock, a tea pot, all who are also cursed until the curse is broken. They look at Bell as the perfect opportunity for the beast to find a true love, but he must learn to be a gentleman, but Bell brings out the best in him and it turns out that this might be a happy ending after all.This was actually the first movie that I ever cried in, the ending was just so beautiful and heart felt, you'll have to see what I mean. The songs are just so lovely and perfect for the scenes that they are performed for. Beauty and the Beast, the song, was just one of the most touching songs ever. This films is a major recommendation for me, it's one of my favorite Disney films of all time, it's a timeless classic that is just perfect and reached a new level of great animation.10/10

The only animated movie to receive a Best Picture Oscar nomination, and it deserved it.Magic from the opening prologue to the final credit, "Beauty and the Beast" is the last real classic to come from the Disney crew before John Lasseter came along. This was one of the few movies I happily paid to see twice in the cinema, and sitting in a sparsely-populated Friday night audience (I was living in Barbados at the time, and it was hardly the most artistic place on Earth... it was a crying shame that there was hardly anyone there while "Home Alone 2" went through the roof) the second time, the magic remained.You all know the story, so apart from pointing out the movie's one flaw (the prince's spell had to be broken before he turned 21 or he would remain a beast forever; so if it was cast ten years before the events of the movie, wouldn't that mean he was 11 when the spell was cast...?), let's look at how well the movie works. You have a monster who's more human than the movie's medallion-man villain; you have a heroine who's PC but engaging with it; you have a supporting cast of magic utensils who wisely never upstage the couple at the centre of this love story (and despite the Disney animated trappings, it IS a love story); and you have a captivating story, beautifully told.The movie's also got wonderful design of its French setting and characters, with the ballroom scene a standout (the tiny but appreciative audience were impressed by the sight of the Beast and Belle in their evening wear - the only time I've ever seen cartoon characters get wolf-whistled in a cinema); and Alan Menken's score is his finest work for the Mouse, with matchless lyrics from the late and much lamented Howard Ashman - how many musicals can you name where ALL the songs are brilliant? But ultimately it's the movie's very real heart that makes it a keeper; the cliche "You'll laugh, you'll cry" is all too true in this case. A lot of movies called 'classic' don't deserve that appellation, but this one does.I'll be slaughtered by anime fans, but what the hell... one "Beauty and the Beast" is worth a thousand "Akira"s. And "Shrek"s. And, I'm willing to bet, "Treasure Planet"s. This is a truly adult animated feature that's also one for the entire family. Forget "The Silence of the Lambs" - this is the real best picture of 1991.

I've not seen the newly added song sequence (Human Again) featured in the latest IMAX version so my comments are based entirely on the original theatrical and VHS release.BEAUTY AND THE BEAST is Disney at its peak. From the stained glass window at the opening and the beautiful narration, the viewer is drawn into the story by the appealing music and clever lyrics ("Belle's Song") which gets the picture off to a bouncy start. The opening sequence showing Belle and the townspeople in song is masterfully handled and choreographed for maximum effect, setting the tone for the entire story.The plot becomes thicker once Belle's father enters the castle grounds where the Beast resides. The castle interiors are brilliantly Baroque and the odd characters inhabiting the grounds are delightfully rendered by a perfect blending of art and voice talent. Cogsworth, Lumiere and Mrs. Potts are delightful creations, each with strong, consistent personalities. David Ogden Stiers, Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury cannot be praised enough for their contributions. Two of the musical highlights are Orbach's dazzling job on "Be My Guest" (with French accent) and Angela's tender rendering of the title song, "Beauty and the Beast". Unforgettable movie moments. As Gaston, Richard White's robust baritone voice adds greatly to the effectiveness of his villainy.It's no wonder the film was the first to receive recognition by the Academy with a Best Picture nomination. Outstanding in every department, including the end title song sung by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson in a more "modern" style. Along with SNOW WHITE and SLEEPING BEAUTY, a top-notch fairy tale with its appeal evenly divided between adults and children--as well as the child in all of us.

a great movie story done with wondrous animation and lovely music.  the pacing was perfect, the music blended extremely well with the action, and each character was developed charmingly.  the contrast between the mean but insecure beast plays very well against the lovely but bright and secure belle.  the animation was top notch: even now, after disney has had time to develop better computer animation techniques, it still has beautiful color and flow.  except for pinocchio, I don't know any disney movie more lovely. It's a movie that appeals to children of all ages, especially adults : )enough of the "technical stuff"  let's get on to my emotional attachment to the movie.I remember the first time I saw B&tB so vividly; I was completely enthralled by the movie that all I could do on the way home was smile and cry.  I've seen it many, many times, yet the ballroom scene still gives me goose bumps. Angela Landsbury as Mrs. Potts sings the title song with so much feeling that every time I hear the song, I'm swept away back to that ballroom.
I was also moved by Belle's strength of self worth and generosity.  She is a heroine I'd love girls to emulate.  She knows what she wants, but yet is sensitive to others in trying to achieve that goal.  She also learns to apologize and to forgive, no small task.I've loved this movie from the start, and it has grown into an obsession. I collect everything I can now, and watch it when I need a lift.  So I know my opinion is strongly biased : )  but I hope you get a chance to see this film and judge for yourself.  I realize it is difficult to get access to the videos or laser discs (check out the spanish version cover imdb is using in B&tB's page) but it is well worth the search.  The first time is most magical.  I envy you.

When I saw the first advertising for Beauty and the Beast -- a cardboard stand-up in a movie theater -- I nearly burst into tears. Just the ADVERTISEMENT was hauntingly beautiful, tapping into some deep human reality. Hasn't everyone, at some time, felt like a hideous beast hungry for someone to love us as we are and in doing so, transform us into something beautiful?The film itself more than delivered. Belle was the first Disney heroine who wasn't either boy-crazy or a doormat/victim. She has brains, heart, and above all, character. The Beast's transformation from monster to hero is believable and poignant. In a world where possessiveness has become the norm (witness the selfish custody battles of birth parents tearing children from the only homes they've ever known), the Beast's heart-wrenching insistence that he had to let Belle leave because he loves her is a breath of fresh air.The music is perfection, the animation astonishing. Together they raise filmmaking of any kind to new challenges. The ballroom scene is heartbreakingly beautiful.If you've been in a coma for ten years or have some other excuse for never having seen this gem of a movie, correct that omission as soon as possible. And have a hankie nearby.

I forgot how flimsy the plot of this is. Very little that happens in this adds up or makes sense when you stop to think about it. And the romance between beauty and the beast is thinly drawn and problematic. You are supposed to just accept it when the movie says so.The songs and score are iconic for good reason; there's more soul and feeling in the lyrics and music than there is anywhere else (it is a musical after all). It all works, the animation is stellar, though personally this is a good not great film and its Best Picture nomination in hindsight is more than a little perplexing.

Beauty and the Beast (1991): Paige O'Hara, Robby Benson, Richard White, Rex Everhart, Jerry Orbach, David Ogden Stiers, Angela Lansbury, Jesse Corti, Bradley Pierce, Jo Anne Worley, Mary Kay Bergman, Kath Soucie Kimmy Robertson, Brian Cummings, Tony Jay, Alvin Epstein, Frank Welker, Scott Barnes, Bruce Adler, Jack Angel, Vanna Bonta....Disney entered the 1990's with "Beauty and the Beast", by far their most unabashedly romantic film and for many viewers, their all-time greatest achievement. There is so much to admire and love about this terrific film which was adored by the critics and hailed as an instant classic at the time of its release in 1991. It was so loved that it became the first animated film ever to be nominated for Best Picture at the Oscars. The 18th century French fairy-tale is given a twist to cater to a more modern audience A selfish and heartless prince (Robby Benson) falls victim to an enchantress' curse and is transformed into a beast. His castle is bewitched and even his domestics are turned into household objects such as candelabras, clocks, feather dusters, teacups and kitchen utensils. Only the love of a woman can redeem the prince and only when she sees past the monster and into his humanity can he become human again. Enter Belle (Paige 0'Hara)the beautiful single daughter of an old and eccentric inventor Maurice (Rex Everhart) who lives in a small town in rural France. Belle stands out from the other townsfolk in her fondness for books, her individuality and her intellect. Bored of provincial life, she longs for "adventure in the great wide somewhere". She's pursued by Gaston (Richard White) a hunky but vain, self-absorbed and wicked hunter who wants to marry Belle and make her his "trophy wife". When Maurice sets off to sell his new invention to a fair, he becomes lost in the woods and stumbles into the Beast's castle. Before long he becomes his prisoner. Belle comes to the rescue but in order to save her father she must replace him as the Beast's prisoner. What ensues is a "tale as old as time". Despite his monstrousness, Belle learns to see past all that and in time tames the Beast herself. Their relationship is based on respect for one another as human beings, exemplified when Beast saves Belle's life and she in turn saves his. But it's not long before the villagers discover the Beast's existence and Gaston leads a murderous mob to attack the castle. The late Broadway singer Jerry Orbach provides comic relief as Lumiere, an amorous French candelabra and David Ogden Stiers portrays the stuffy British clock Cogsworth. Broadway icon and British actress Angela Lansbury portrays the kindly voice of reason, Mrs. Potts and young Bradley Pierce portrays her son Chip. Jesse Corti plays Lefou, Gaston's awkward and goofy sidekick. These minor characters, purely there for comic relief and cuteness, not only entertains younger audiences but they are so wonderfully portrayed by the actor's voices that even adults can enjoy them. It is through voices that can act as well as sing (Paige O'Hara, Richard White, Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury are all Broadway singers) in harmony with a solid plot and superior animation that this film truly shines. Beauty and the Beast still ranks as Disney's all-time greatest after 16 years. In fact, Disney does not make films like this anymore, owing to the excess use of computer graphics which can often dominate the story itself. Shortly after the success of the film, a Broadway musical was made, one that is still enjoyed to this date. And this film contains many wonderful song numbers: "Belle" - a gossip song as the villagers follow Belle on her way to the bookstore, "Gaston" sung by Gaston and his drinking buddies in his honor, "Be Our Guest" as the enchanted castle's staff entertains Belle for dinner, "Something There" a duet sung by the leads as they begin to fall in love and the title song "Beauty and the Beast" sung by Mrs. Potts as the newfound friends waltz beneath an opulent chandelier. This romantic song was popularized when a young Celine Dion, not yet a major star, sang a duet with Peabo Bryson for the soundtrack. With its theme of beauty found within, a woman's courage and virtue rewarded, the movie is also a sort of women's empowerment film for girls. Belle, the first Disney princess of the 90's, is strong, resourceful and dares to be different. Far from being a damsel in distress, it is she who rescues the Beast from doom and fights the villain Gaston by firmly renouncing him as a lover. Brilliant music and songs by Alan Menken and a splendid cinematography that used stunning computer-graphic art for such scenes as the ballroom waltz, this film was ahead of its time and marked the beginning of the great Disney films of the 90's - Aladdin, Lion King, Pocahontas, Hunchback of Notre Dame and others, all which used special effects made of computer graphic art. For this film, animators drew inspiration from Romantic 19th century art(Fragonard and Bouche) and from Loire Valley castles. Animators also drew from Cocteau's 1946 live-action version. The look of this film, the attention to detail, is a real winner and it's a pity that Disney does not return to pure animation. For me, this is the zenith of Disney animation and a representation of classic Disney at its best in the 1990's. This is a wonderful film for both young and old and looks as great as it ever did, thanks to restorations as seen on the new DVD version, where you can enjoy seeing how the film was made and scenes that were never part of the original theatrical release. Enjoy this romantic classic today with a date or with the whole family.

Before any hate comments I like to point out like I said in the title, it's a classic and I like it. It has a good story, great animation, wonderful music etc. but after reading the plot of Beauty and the Beast book on Wikipedia I think it could've worked better. In the original, Belle is one of the six children in a wealthy merchant family, now you might think she'll be bratty or selfish and all that clichéd stuff but really she sounds very nice and kind, as of course Disney had adopted the personality into the movie so credit for that. Though the sisters really have that 'ugly step sister' appeal like from Cinderella treating Belle like a servant and secretly taunt her. The merchant lost his wealth in a storm and was forced to live in a small farmhouse. Years later, the merchant, found out that one of his ships had survived the causality and returned to the city to find out in the end that wealth has been seized to pay off his debt. Beforehand, thinking that the ship might have something valuable promised his daughters some jewels and dresses and Belle a rose, which is from the beast's garden, more of the plot can be seen on Wikipedia. The book's plot pretty much works better then Disney's adaptation and as I said before, the movie is a classic. But I love stories that has also have no villains, Gaston is a really memorable villain, not plotting revenge or wanting to kill someone, well minus beast so he can win Belle, but not for glory. He's just pompous, self-centred person. But films like 'My Neighbour Totoro' works without a villain, it's shows the struggle of the main character. As much as I love this film and its story, the book version would've been a better choice to adapt. As of the movie. I love the side characters and climax, and I do accept the Disney version by the way. The songs are fun and the animation very fluid and colourful.

This is, without a doubt, the best film Disney ever made. Now that's saying a lot, as the studio also made "Bambi", "Little Mermaid" and many other great films. "Beauty and the Beast" represents everything they could do right in a movie. The music is fantastic and couldn't be better (mostly because many of the songs had a great sense of humor), the characters wonderful and the story promoted some of the most wonderful values you could want. Belle is a completely admirable young lady--and I was thrilled that my own daughters could watch her and learn about her strength and integrity. And, the film is fun--yet will also bring a tear to the eye of even the most jaded viewer. Not surprisingly the film was nominated for Best Picture--it's just a shame that an animated film will probably never take home this Oscar. Well worth seeing and owning--a truly great film.

Yes, this movie has excellent art and animation (certainly a contender for the best-looking 2D movie), some of the best songs in a Disney musical (and that's high praise considering their excellent repertoire), and the voice acting leaves nothing to be desired.Most of the supporting characters have charming personalities.The battle scene is thrilling despite the fact that it's basically a horror B-movie setup (a bunch of furniture in a castle attacking peasants). The development of the romance between Belle and "the Best" is also tastefully done.In short, the film is a great achievement in cinema from a technical standpoint, but it's all mixed up in terms of the messages it sends:1. It's about how people should look past shallow considerations when falling in love (particularly appearance). Belle falls in love with the Beast despite the fact that he's... well, a beast, so it's not shallow at all, right?Wrong. Not only does he end up turning into a handsome man, but he appears to be fabulously wealthy and has a bunch of magical devices at his disposal. This completely unwinds any supposed moral high ground.2. And what does Belle fall in love with anyway? She's shown to love books but the Beast doesn't seem to even know how to read. She implies she wants to see the wide world but by all appearanes the Best is a local boy who's tied to the castle. She doesn't like Gaston presumably because he's arrogant and aggressive but...3. The Beast is extremely abusive, jailing a lost old man, kidnapping Belle, terrorizing her on screen throughout the beginning of the movie, and treating his servants as slaves. Not only that, but he got into the predicament he did for being shallow, entitled, and cruel.Side Note: the servants apparently LOVE to serve. It's not just a job for them but their passion. I find it strange.Disney's playing with fire here. The Beast is shown to be pretty rotten and now suddenly he meets Belle and becomes a nice guy why?I'm surprised this story keeps getting retold and has survived so long unmodified. Morally, it's a dangerous mess. Logically, the plot doesn't add up.Honourable Mentions: Shrek (2001). I'm sure the movie has its flaws, but it's basically the Beauty and the Beast story with most of the inappropriate hypocritical bits fixed.

I wanted to love this movie, I really did, and it was such a huge disappointment that I absolutely loathed it. I don't care about the Stockholm Syndrome's discussion, that is not what I have a problem with. I had a problem with Belle from the first 5 minutes of the movie. She wants something more from her "provincial life", but all she does is read a book, she does not work; she believes to be better than the "peasants" because she reads instead of, you know, actually working and earning some money. In other words, she is lazy, spoiled and superficial. I wanted to punch by the end of the song.As if the introduction of the characters weren't bad enough, the premises of the story are dumb. Why didn't the beast kill her father? Why make him prisoner? Why bother? Especially if you want to kill him in the next scene? But I persevered and kept watching, trying not to nit-pick to much. However, I couldn't do it: after being imprisoned, all she did was cry in the room instead of being curious or headstrong considering that she was having the big adventure she wanted; after being freed by Lumière and Cogsworth, she does exactly what she was forbidden to do; after crying the whole time, when it is time to play it safe and choose the library, she is adventurous and goes to the west wing. Is this the Belle everyone love? Do I have it right? As if that was not enough, fans are proud to say that Belle fled and returned of her own volition. She is kicked out of the castle! She did not flee! She returned because the Beast saved her life and she was grateful to him, that's all. She is not in love with him and she has not forgiven him. It is beyond me why she actually stayed though, maybe because of the wolves, I don't know.Moving on to the Beast. I didn't care about his personality, what I thought though was that he was supposed to be a kid turned into a beast, tight? Then why do we have him learning to be civilised? He should have more manners than Belle considering he is a prince. This is not the Island of Dr. Moreau where beasts learn to be human, because if that was the case he shouldn't know how to speak either. And how come he doesn't know how to read? How did he spend his days? Sleeping? Fans have said that he learns to be civilised because he wants to, not because of Belle...He had 10 years and he only starts now that there is Belle, and you are telling me it is not because of her? This is the same conundrum present in The Little Mermaid, does Ariel goes to the human world because she wanted to or because of the prince? I tend for the latter in both movies. In the end the Beast is not loved for who he is, he needs to change himself to be accepted, so is Belle really loving the Beast?After that I just shut my brain because everything that followed was too ridiculous. The next day I was still mad, disappointed and sulky, so I ended up watching the French version of 1946. Boy, was that better. I absolutely recommend that version to this one.

Who can resist this beautiful story? I love the fact that even though Belle hated Beast at first, she saw underneath that he was a kind and gentle soul, and didn't care what he looked like on the outside! And what girl hasn't known a Gaston in their lives? I thought it was so great how he was put in his place! All the voiceovers are amazing, especially Robby Benson as Beast. Another Disney masterpiece.

... and be entertained with 90 minutes of mesmerising fairy tale telling at its very best. Feel as enchanted as the castle and its occupants as your spirits and emotions rise and fall then rise again. Rejoice in the spectacular finale, while relishing the craft of these incredible animators, musicians, writers, their genius and imagination but, above all, let the meaning and the message distil within you - avoid the shallowness of appearance, don't judge a book by its cover, we're all so much more than what we present.

This is the most amazing movie i have ever seen. Everything about it is magnificent. The music goes perfect with the scenes and mood of the film, and the characters have personalities that go with the flow of the movie. Every event leads to another one and keeps you watching. I cant even describe the overall feeling after you watch it. It will make you feel every emotion there is. There are parts where you will be angry at the movie, but another when u are happy and over joyed and yet, sad and crying your eyes out. The old story of a young girl finding the true beauty within from a beast is captured very well. It can be told anyway but Disney really makes it the best. The animation is still beautiful even now when they have higher technology. Overall even know it is still my favorite movie and i do watch it every time i get a chance. I am practically obsessed it is so good. I do have other favorites like the little mermaid and Tarzan and the lion king but nothing can compare to this.Every time i see it i am taken away into it until the end. I always wish that this story could somehow come true and i could be there. It makes you dream and wish and hope. The strong scenes for me are: -when the prince is just transformed into the beast and with the rose as the camera zooms away from the castle. -after Gaston proposes to belle and she runs out of the house asking for a more "provincial life" and lays in the grass -the library scene -and definitely the ballroom scene just fills me with joy and tears at the same time -and lastly when the beast is dying and belle mutters that she loves himWhat really makes it the best is the voices too. Just listening to hte music without the movie can make you feel the same way. i am a real Disney lover but i would highly recommend this one above all others.

I still remember watching this movie when I was very little. I did not appreciate it as much then, but now because I am older, I can cherish this blessed masterpiece. The music in this movie is one of the best film scores ever and contains the catchiest Disney tunes. Who could ever forget the ever-popular ballroom scene? This movie, in my opinion was Alan Menken and Howard Ashman's best! I also think that this is the best Disney movie made after the great Walt Disney passed away.I had the opportunity of seeing the Special Edition on IMAX. What an experience! The scenes were breathtaking to see on such a large screen. I even found the new song "Human Again" very entertaining.It's such a shame that Disney hasn't made a movie like this since "Mulan". "Beauty and the Beast" will be forever remembered as the epitome of modern-day Disney movies (and should have won the Best Picture Oscar instead of "The Silence of the Lambs"). Bravo to Disney!

This movie is without doubt the best animated movie of all time. The artistry was perfect. I was spellbound at the animated sequences to the songs "Be Our Guest" and "Beauty and the Beast" especially. The characters were very well drawn, and because of the dark and colourful backgrounds, the film looked beautiful. The songs are fantastic. Another movie with great songs is "The Hunchback of Notre Dame"(which has the best beginning to a Disney movie). In fact, all the Alan Menken scores are brilliant, with the exception of Home On The Range, which is one of the weaker Disney efforts. My personal favourites, were the songs I just mentioned, and "Gaston" was great fun too. The incidental music was the best in any Disney movie, and that is the same with the other Menken scores. The music in the transformation of the Beast was phenomenal, as well as the animation, and reminded me of the last movement of Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique, which is really frightening. Another Disney with great incidental music is "The Lion King". The story is quite simply one of the best love stories ever, and the characters are wonderful. Belle was voiced beautifully by Paige O'Hara, who has a beautiful singing voice. I love Belle, she is beautiful, clever and strong, and is one of the best Disney characters for those reasons. Gaston was made into a complex villain, and quite narcissistic(great idea Disney). When he was nasty he was quite frightening, and Richard White can really sing. Jerry Orbach and David Ogden Stiers were really entertaining as Lumiere and Cogsworth,(I just love how witty, elegant and debonair Lumiere is) and Angela Lansbury gives a brilliant rendition of the title song. The best voice over was that of the Beast, who was very frightening, and there were some parts that were truly sensitive. Why are some people fussed about him as a human? Remember, true beauty comes from within. In conclusion, an essential to your Disney collection with a very poignant ending. 10/10. Bethany Cox

The 30th animated Disney "classic" is, without a doubt, one of the most famous Disney classics, which is a good and a bad thing either, because its success tends somewhat to overshadow other very good Disney classics (often better than this). Or maybe what happens is that this movie gets the deserved attention, while others sadly do not have the same luck (such as "The Rescuers", "The Aristocats", "The Fox and the Hound", "The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh", "Robin Hood" and others). That is the worst aspect of this movie's success. So, as one can see, it's not all roses.Nevertheless, "Beauty and the Beast" is one of Disney's most original movies. To a point, it is every bit as creative and imaginative as "Alice in Wonderland", except that it isn't as eccentric as that one.One thing that is very obvious from the beginning is that this is a french tale. It's quite easy to understand that because all the characters have french names. Plus, they often use french words such as "Bonjour" (which means "Good morning" in french). Lumière even uses the word «Sacré bleu» once. However, it's not very clear the exact place of our story. All we know is that it's somewhere in France.As much as I don't like all of the movie's characters, some of them are very charming. For example: Lumière (the candelabra), Cogsworth (a clock), Mrs. Potts (a teapot), Chip (the cute little teacup), Belle, Maurice (Belle's father, who is also an inventor) and Philippe (the horse). It's funny that a horse is named Philippe (Philip in french) - LOL.Belle is one of Disney's most beautiful chicks, together with Jasmine, Ariel and the Blue Fairy. Belle is also classy, charming, carefree, nonconformist, conservative and nice. All of this makes her an interesting character and, above all, different from the rest of her village's population, who see her as a strange girl because she likes to read and also because she can't stand Gaston (unlike the rest of women) neither the idea of being his "little wife". Belle is appropriately named like that (her name means beautiful in french).Gaston (who is considered the villain of the movie) is a character who's got no culture at all, being the epitome of pure strength and no brain (like Biff Tannen from "Back to the Future"). Gaston is a tall, muscled, vain, arrogant, snobbish and chauvinistic guy with a heart of stone.On the other hand, Gaston's follower and helper, Lefou, is more of a goofy guy than anything else, nearly like a comic relief. No wonder he is named Lefou (which means "The Fool" in french).Monsieur D'Arque is a strange man with a sinister appearance that makes him seem to come from a terror film. For some children, he might be a bit of a creepy character.My favorite character is Chip (he is the cutest of all, besides, his natural sweetness and innocence helps). However, Lumière and Belle come incredibly close to Chip when it comes to my favorite characters of this film.The soundtrack isn't entirely spectacular, but the romantic ballad "Beauty and the Beast" is beautiful. It has 2 versions. Angela Lansbury's version is good, but the original one by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson is extraordinary.As for the cast, it is brand new comparing to older Disney films and most of them do well. Paige O'Hara and Angela Lansbury are among the best ones, but those who steal the show are Bradley Pierce as Chip and Jerry Orbach as Lumière. Jerry Orbach gives so much life and energy to Lumière, with such a convincing french accent.The best part of the whole film is the famous ballroom dance sequence, which is wonderful, brilliant and very artistic (the graphics also make it look incredibly close to a live-action ballroom).Generally speaking, this film has the main ingredients of an animated Disney movie: great picture quality (good designs, backgrounds, sceneries and colors), very good animation, creativity, originality, some charming characters, some romance, adventure, darkness, suspense, classic humor and so on...The Prince (that is, the Beast as a human being) almost looks like Jean Michel Jarre with that long hair. That said, his change of heart during the movie is amazing. From a person who is spoiled, selfish, unkind and with an explosive temper, he becomes kind, gentle and even romantic.Although the sequence "Human Again" was originally gonna be included in the movie, it was removed in the final version. It was recovered for the DVD. Yet, the version I consider the true one is the one without the sequence "Human Again", even if that one is not *officially* the movie's true version. But for me the true version is the one I know since 1991. It's the way I always knew it, so it makes perfect sense.

'' The Beauty and The Beast'' is one of the greatest stories ever told and one of the best movies from Disney that I watched in my life. I always identified myself with Belle, the girl who does not belong the place where she is lives and also with a big taste of reading lots of books. Our story takes part in France in 18 century, and our main character Belle is the prettiest girl in the city she lives, being the object of the affection and interest of Gaston, an arrogant man that has the sympathy of the people of the region.(And also considered a big catch for the girls of the city)But Belle is not interested in him and always imagined her life different from the domestic life people always imagine for her.One day, Belle's father, an inventor, was going to sell one of his inventions and lost his ways, being attacked by wild animals and entering in a big dark mansion apparently without a owner. He stays there for a time, but soon the Beast comes up and attacks him,making him a prisoner in his castle.Belle stays worried and goes after her father in the mansion and there she sees the violent and awful beast who locked her father. She then makes a deal: Belle agrees to stay in the dark castle with the horrible beast in return to her father's freedom. But with the time, Belle is going to discover all the magic that is beyond the castle, including the talking objects and even a nice side that the Beast has.This story is very inspiring and very beautiful! =)

Decent adaptation of the classic fable.A prince is turned into a beast by a witch. He is doomed to spend the rest of his days in that way unless he experiences true love by a certain age. Meanwhile, in a nearby village a beautiful girl, Belle, is being harassed by the local casanova, Gaston. Then one day her father is imprisoned by the Beast...Sweet movie, though dull in spells. Part of the problem is that you know how it is going to end. There is some originality though - the animated pots, candlesticks etc - and these generally provide the most entertaining moments.Unfortunately, it is a musical. No particularly good songs: some are okay, some are quite forgettable and some are even a bit irritating. You know things aren't going to go well when Celine Dion sings the theme song...Kids should enjoy it. Adults can take it or leave it.

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, in my opinion, is a delightful Disney romance. If you ask me, Gaston (voice of Richard White) was truly diabolical. Still, in my opinion, he was very good-looking. On the other hand, the songs were truly superior. Well, despite the fact that every song in this film was good, I would have to say that the title song was the best. This was probably be because she did most of the singing. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say everyone involved in delightful Disney romance to all of you who haven't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.

Ah yes, a tale as old as time: Stockholm syndrome. Seriously, there isn't really another way to describe the plot of 'Beauty And The Beast (1991)'. The Beast straight-up keeps Belle prisoner and treats her awfully (after kidnapping her dad, too), but I guess it's okay because she soon falls in love with him? Obviously, that's a really weird and rather problematic message. Their dynamic closely resembles that of an abusive relationship, one that perpetuates that harmful belief that it's a woman's duty to put up with a man's bad behaviour and change him for the better. Yikes. The piece is supposed to be a story about how beauty isn't skin deep, about how you shouldn't judge a book by its cover; this theme is completely undercut by the fact that Belle is apparently the most beautiful person in France, that Beast is a dog of a bloke regardless of the fact that he's literally a dog of a bloke (I mean, is he really any better than Gaston?) and that the curse is completely undone at the end and the Beast transforms into a handsome man. Plus, the servants mention that they've not been able to serve someone in ten years and the curse specifically states that it will cement itself, symbolised by the wilting of the pink rose, on the prince's twenty-first birthday, which means that the prince was around eleven years old when the curse was first put on him. That means that the witch (?) decided to ruin a little kid's life because he refused to let a total stranger (who's pretending to be someone they're not, I'll add) into his castle. Bit of a bad move, if I'm honest. Having said all that, the movie itself is generally successful. It features a number of catchy songs and some wonderful animation. It's also generally rather entertaining. There's quite a bit to like if you can ignore its issues, and it seems most people can. Ultimately, it's a decently enjoyable Disney movie that's let down by some unintentionally dodgy theming. 6/10.

Look, I understand that this is one of the favorite animated movies in the public eye and I can mostly see why. However, I just don't feel the same way. Belle is a very bland character, her personality is just she like-a da books. She doesn't really have anything going on. The romance between her and Beast is extremely rushed and out of place, just like "haha stockholm syndrome now they kiss". Gaston is great, of course, as is his song, but the rest of the songs in this movie that DON'T include Gaston for some part of it are mid at best and annoying at worst. Be Our Guest gives me a headache with how little there is going on, and the animation has some spotty moments. The whole movie does in a way, some spots where you can tell the movie still has some of the old era of disney in it. Detailed backgrouns which clash hard with the simpler character designs, it just doesn't look good to me. It's obviously still lavishly animated, a good looking movie. I just wish this movie came a little later into the disney renaissance, the age in its animation shows more than I wish it did. Even outside of its age, a lot of the designs are slacking. LeFou is a whole topic on its own, but even outside of him some of the other background characters (AND EVEN HUMAN BEAST) look really bad. Don't wanna knock it for its visuals too much because it is quite fine in that department and it's not the movie's fault. There's one part of the movie that does genuinely exceed the rest, and that's the aforementioned Gaston. He's a perfect antagonist, contrasting with the story and characters in a way that makes him a threat and a perfect thematic match. I'm gonna rewatch the movie to see if the rest of the movie can match my thoughts on him, but I'm not getting my hopes up.

Beauty and the Beast is an engaging movie with so much care and beauty fused into its core. Beauty is much more than just an influential animated classic. It is a grand and powerful fable, sugar coated with the best animation effort in a time where CGI was becoming a movie mainstay. In its finest moments, Beauty is a rousing musical, making your head move and getting caught up right in the mix. The score is unforgettable and the characters are so easy to get into. A movie that children and adults alike will love, Disney deserved its Academy Award nominations for creating such a joy.Small town Belle longs for more than a local life, maintaining her imagination through books and taking care of her kind, yet eccentric father. But when their horse returns without papa, Belle sets out to find the awful truth in an enchanted castle.You can see that so much time and care was spent in drawing this masterpiece. I cannot think of many other movies that show such meticulous background and animation. That such effort is woven effortlessly into its songs that make Beauty and the Beast the timeless classic Disney rightfully lauds itself over. 'Be Our Guest,' 'Beauty and the Beast,' 'Gaston,' you will be humming these songs at one point in your your life! Kudos to Disney for creating a charismatic, attractive villain in Gaston. He would not be a villain if he was not such a jerk. You must watch this movie at least once in your life, in a comfortable sofa and with the sound turned right up for the Broadway scores. You will enjoy it!

Indeed, it's a tale as old as time, with a complex message that is as ageless as it is universal; but beneath all the layers it can be summed up very simply:  love one another, and refrain from judging others who `seem' to be `different.'  And leave it to Disney to present it in such a way that it can be embraced and understood by young and old alike as they have here, in one of their best animated features ever, `Beauty and the Beast,' directed by Gary Trousdale.  When a young Prince fails the test of an enchantress disguised as an old hag, she transforms him into a hideous beast, as he is destined to remain until he opens his heart and learns how to love and be loved in return.  And so that he'll know where he stands as time goes by, she gives him an enchanted rose, which will bloom until his twenty-first birthday, and he has only until the last petal falls from the flower to effect the change within himself that will be his salvation. 
	The beast, however, seems doomed, as he shuts himself away, alone in his castle, taking up a reclusive existence far from everyone and everything. Until, one day, a beautiful young woman named Belle shows up at his doorstep.  Belle is searching for her inventor father, Maurice, who disappeared while taking one of his latest inventions to the fair; and his trail leads Belle to the castle of the Beast, where she discovers he is being held prisoner, having run afoul of the Beast by trespassing while lost during the night of his journey.  Repulsed by the appearance of the Beast, Belle nevertheless strikes a bargain with him:  If he will release her father, she will stay in his place.  The Beast agrees, with the stipulation that she must remain with him forever.  And as the Beast casts Belle's father from the castle and sends him on his way, Belle's fate seems sealed. The only hope now for either Belle or the Beast lies in the remote possibility that true love may somehow prevail before the last petal of the enchanted rose falls.	With the help of a richly textured screenplay (by Linda Woolverton) that invests the characters with a depth of humanity that is often lacking even in `non' animated films, and an Oscar winning score by Alan Menken, director Trousdale provides some real insights into human nature in this retelling of the familiar story of how true love can change even the darkest and coldest of hearts.  There's magic in this film, which holds an enchantment of it's own, and the message is presented ever so subtly and with a sensitivity that draws you in gradually until you are so caught up in the story that you become immersed and totally involved without being consciously aware of it. It's a film that enfolds you and takes you where it will, and you go willingly.  A beautifully rendered and realized film that successfully transcends it's genre, it is the first animated feature ever to be recognized and rewarded with an Oscar nomination for Best Movie (quite a feat in itself, as it received the nod over such films as `The Fisher King,' `Fried Green Tomatoes,' `Thelma and Louise' and John Singleton's `Boyz N the Hood' that year).  	The talented cast supplying the voices of the characters includes Paige O'Hara (Belle), Robby Benson (The Beast), Richard White (Gaston), Jerry Orbach (Lumiere), David Ogden Stiers (Cogsworth), Angela Lansbury (Mrs. Potts), Bradley Pierce (Chip), Rex Everhart (Maurice), Jesse Corti (LeFou), Hal Smith (Phillipe), Jo Ann Worley (Wardrobe), Brian Cummings (Stove), Alvin Epstein (Bookseller) and Kimmy Robertson (Featherduster).  There's a scene in this film that is so entrancing and so emotionally involving that it stands up against the best from any drama ever made:  As Angela Lansbury (as Mrs. Potts) sings the Oscar winning title song, Belle begins to perceive the true nature of the man within the Beast; and it's no longer the cold-hearted Prince upon whom the enchantress cast her spell, because he has changed.  And as they come together and the Beast takes Belle in his arms, sweeping her in dance across the elegant ballroom floor, it becomes one of those rare cinematic `moments' that are entirely transporting, and it does, indeed, take you away.  It's a memorable scene that exemplifies the quality and craftsmanship of this film, as does the scene in which the Beast is at last transformed; that such emotion can be captured and expressed in an animated film is an exemplary accomplishment, and it's all a part of why `Beauty and the Beast' is one of Disney's all time greatest films. 
	One final note:  Stay for the credits to hear Alan Menken and Howard Ashman's title song once again, this time performed by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson.  Hypnotically beautiful, this version has a magic all it's own and makes the perfect ending to an enchanting experience.  It's all a part of the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.

This is a classic movie. We have breakthrough films like Snow White and Fantasia, and we have other greats like Aladdin and The Lion King, but this definitely tops them all. There is so much here that is missing in other Disney classics. This film has emotion, incredible music and animation, characters that you admire, laugh at, and despise. This movie is a fun ride from beginning to end. We can all relate with the suffering of the Beast (being an outsider), and we all know a Gaston in our lives. The way we can identify with the characters sucks us into the story. Don't miss this classic...the only animated film to be nominated for a Best Picture Oscar.

Beauty and the Beast is without a doubt one of Disney's finest classics. The first animated film to ever be nominated for best picture and after you see it, you could understand and agree with it's nomination. Beauty and the Beast is going to be one of those films that will always be remembered, I know that it's a movie that I will show my children one day. It has unbelievably terrific animation, a beautiful story, lovable characters, and is just over all a perfect movie. I really love this film so much, I don't think anyone couldn't fall in love with it.Bell is just a simple girl in her town in France, she reads books constantly and her father is an inventor. They are sort of the outcasts of their town due to their "oddness". But Bell is being pursued by the town hunk, Gueston, simply because she's the one girl he cannot have. One day when her father's inventions are about to be displayed at the fair, he gets lost in the woods and stumbles across a castle and is held prisoner. Bell goes after him and comes to the castle; it turns out that her father is being held by a beast who is cursed with this hideousness unless he finds a true love before a rose he has welts. Bell trades places with her father; the house also has living objects, a candle holder, a clock, a tea pot, all who are also cursed until the curse is broken. They look at Bell as the perfect opportunity for the beast to find a true love, but he must learn to be a gentleman, but Bell brings out the best in him and it turns out that this might be a happy ending after all.This was actually the first movie that I ever cried in, the ending was just so beautiful and heart felt, you'll have to see what I mean. The songs are just so lovely and perfect for the scenes that they are performed for. Beauty and the Beast, the song, was just one of the most touching songs ever. This films is a major recommendation for me, it's one of my favorite Disney films of all time, it's a timeless classic that is just perfect and reached a new level of great animation.10/10

The only animated movie to receive a Best Picture Oscar nomination, and it deserved it.Magic from the opening prologue to the final credit, "Beauty and the Beast" is the last real classic to come from the Disney crew before John Lasseter came along. This was one of the few movies I happily paid to see twice in the cinema, and sitting in a sparsely-populated Friday night audience (I was living in Barbados at the time, and it was hardly the most artistic place on Earth... it was a crying shame that there was hardly anyone there while "Home Alone 2" went through the roof) the second time, the magic remained.You all know the story, so apart from pointing out the movie's one flaw (the prince's spell had to be broken before he turned 21 or he would remain a beast forever; so if it was cast ten years before the events of the movie, wouldn't that mean he was 11 when the spell was cast...?), let's look at how well the movie works. You have a monster who's more human than the movie's medallion-man villain; you have a heroine who's PC but engaging with it; you have a supporting cast of magic utensils who wisely never upstage the couple at the centre of this love story (and despite the Disney animated trappings, it IS a love story); and you have a captivating story, beautifully told.The movie's also got wonderful design of its French setting and characters, with the ballroom scene a standout (the tiny but appreciative audience were impressed by the sight of the Beast and Belle in their evening wear - the only time I've ever seen cartoon characters get wolf-whistled in a cinema); and Alan Menken's score is his finest work for the Mouse, with matchless lyrics from the late and much lamented Howard Ashman - how many musicals can you name where ALL the songs are brilliant? But ultimately it's the movie's very real heart that makes it a keeper; the cliche "You'll laugh, you'll cry" is all too true in this case. A lot of movies called 'classic' don't deserve that appellation, but this one does.I'll be slaughtered by anime fans, but what the hell... one "Beauty and the Beast" is worth a thousand "Akira"s. And "Shrek"s. And, I'm willing to bet, "Treasure Planet"s. This is a truly adult animated feature that's also one for the entire family. Forget "The Silence of the Lambs" - this is the real best picture of 1991.

I've not seen the newly added song sequence (Human Again) featured in the latest IMAX version so my comments are based entirely on the original theatrical and VHS release.BEAUTY AND THE BEAST is Disney at its peak. From the stained glass window at the opening and the beautiful narration, the viewer is drawn into the story by the appealing music and clever lyrics ("Belle's Song") which gets the picture off to a bouncy start. The opening sequence showing Belle and the townspeople in song is masterfully handled and choreographed for maximum effect, setting the tone for the entire story.The plot becomes thicker once Belle's father enters the castle grounds where the Beast resides. The castle interiors are brilliantly Baroque and the odd characters inhabiting the grounds are delightfully rendered by a perfect blending of art and voice talent. Cogsworth, Lumiere and Mrs. Potts are delightful creations, each with strong, consistent personalities. David Ogden Stiers, Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury cannot be praised enough for their contributions. Two of the musical highlights are Orbach's dazzling job on "Be My Guest" (with French accent) and Angela's tender rendering of the title song, "Beauty and the Beast". Unforgettable movie moments. As Gaston, Richard White's robust baritone voice adds greatly to the effectiveness of his villainy.It's no wonder the film was the first to receive recognition by the Academy with a Best Picture nomination. Outstanding in every department, including the end title song sung by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson in a more "modern" style. Along with SNOW WHITE and SLEEPING BEAUTY, a top-notch fairy tale with its appeal evenly divided between adults and children--as well as the child in all of us.

a great movie story done with wondrous animation and lovely music.  the pacing was perfect, the music blended extremely well with the action, and each character was developed charmingly.  the contrast between the mean but insecure beast plays very well against the lovely but bright and secure belle.  the animation was top notch: even now, after disney has had time to develop better computer animation techniques, it still has beautiful color and flow.  except for pinocchio, I don't know any disney movie more lovely. It's a movie that appeals to children of all ages, especially adults : )enough of the "technical stuff"  let's get on to my emotional attachment to the movie.I remember the first time I saw B&tB so vividly; I was completely enthralled by the movie that all I could do on the way home was smile and cry.  I've seen it many, many times, yet the ballroom scene still gives me goose bumps. Angela Landsbury as Mrs. Potts sings the title song with so much feeling that every time I hear the song, I'm swept away back to that ballroom.
I was also moved by Belle's strength of self worth and generosity.  She is a heroine I'd love girls to emulate.  She knows what she wants, but yet is sensitive to others in trying to achieve that goal.  She also learns to apologize and to forgive, no small task.I've loved this movie from the start, and it has grown into an obsession. I collect everything I can now, and watch it when I need a lift.  So I know my opinion is strongly biased : )  but I hope you get a chance to see this film and judge for yourself.  I realize it is difficult to get access to the videos or laser discs (check out the spanish version cover imdb is using in B&tB's page) but it is well worth the search.  The first time is most magical.  I envy you.

When I saw the first advertising for Beauty and the Beast -- a cardboard stand-up in a movie theater -- I nearly burst into tears. Just the ADVERTISEMENT was hauntingly beautiful, tapping into some deep human reality. Hasn't everyone, at some time, felt like a hideous beast hungry for someone to love us as we are and in doing so, transform us into something beautiful?The film itself more than delivered. Belle was the first Disney heroine who wasn't either boy-crazy or a doormat/victim. She has brains, heart, and above all, character. The Beast's transformation from monster to hero is believable and poignant. In a world where possessiveness has become the norm (witness the selfish custody battles of birth parents tearing children from the only homes they've ever known), the Beast's heart-wrenching insistence that he had to let Belle leave because he loves her is a breath of fresh air.The music is perfection, the animation astonishing. Together they raise filmmaking of any kind to new challenges. The ballroom scene is heartbreakingly beautiful.If you've been in a coma for ten years or have some other excuse for never having seen this gem of a movie, correct that omission as soon as possible. And have a hankie nearby.

I forgot how flimsy the plot of this is. Very little that happens in this adds up or makes sense when you stop to think about it. And the romance between beauty and the beast is thinly drawn and problematic. You are supposed to just accept it when the movie says so.The songs and score are iconic for good reason; there's more soul and feeling in the lyrics and music than there is anywhere else (it is a musical after all). It all works, the animation is stellar, though personally this is a good not great film and its Best Picture nomination in hindsight is more than a little perplexing.

Beauty and the Beast (1991): Paige O'Hara, Robby Benson, Richard White, Rex Everhart, Jerry Orbach, David Ogden Stiers, Angela Lansbury, Jesse Corti, Bradley Pierce, Jo Anne Worley, Mary Kay Bergman, Kath Soucie Kimmy Robertson, Brian Cummings, Tony Jay, Alvin Epstein, Frank Welker, Scott Barnes, Bruce Adler, Jack Angel, Vanna Bonta....Disney entered the 1990's with "Beauty and the Beast", by far their most unabashedly romantic film and for many viewers, their all-time greatest achievement. There is so much to admire and love about this terrific film which was adored by the critics and hailed as an instant classic at the time of its release in 1991. It was so loved that it became the first animated film ever to be nominated for Best Picture at the Oscars. The 18th century French fairy-tale is given a twist to cater to a more modern audience A selfish and heartless prince (Robby Benson) falls victim to an enchantress' curse and is transformed into a beast. His castle is bewitched and even his domestics are turned into household objects such as candelabras, clocks, feather dusters, teacups and kitchen utensils. Only the love of a woman can redeem the prince and only when she sees past the monster and into his humanity can he become human again. Enter Belle (Paige 0'Hara)the beautiful single daughter of an old and eccentric inventor Maurice (Rex Everhart) who lives in a small town in rural France. Belle stands out from the other townsfolk in her fondness for books, her individuality and her intellect. Bored of provincial life, she longs for "adventure in the great wide somewhere". She's pursued by Gaston (Richard White) a hunky but vain, self-absorbed and wicked hunter who wants to marry Belle and make her his "trophy wife". When Maurice sets off to sell his new invention to a fair, he becomes lost in the woods and stumbles into the Beast's castle. Before long he becomes his prisoner. Belle comes to the rescue but in order to save her father she must replace him as the Beast's prisoner. What ensues is a "tale as old as time". Despite his monstrousness, Belle learns to see past all that and in time tames the Beast herself. Their relationship is based on respect for one another as human beings, exemplified when Beast saves Belle's life and she in turn saves his. But it's not long before the villagers discover the Beast's existence and Gaston leads a murderous mob to attack the castle. The late Broadway singer Jerry Orbach provides comic relief as Lumiere, an amorous French candelabra and David Ogden Stiers portrays the stuffy British clock Cogsworth. Broadway icon and British actress Angela Lansbury portrays the kindly voice of reason, Mrs. Potts and young Bradley Pierce portrays her son Chip. Jesse Corti plays Lefou, Gaston's awkward and goofy sidekick. These minor characters, purely there for comic relief and cuteness, not only entertains younger audiences but they are so wonderfully portrayed by the actor's voices that even adults can enjoy them. It is through voices that can act as well as sing (Paige O'Hara, Richard White, Jerry Orbach and Angela Lansbury are all Broadway singers) in harmony with a solid plot and superior animation that this film truly shines. Beauty and the Beast still ranks as Disney's all-time greatest after 16 years. In fact, Disney does not make films like this anymore, owing to the excess use of computer graphics which can often dominate the story itself. Shortly after the success of the film, a Broadway musical was made, one that is still enjoyed to this date. And this film contains many wonderful song numbers: "Belle" - a gossip song as the villagers follow Belle on her way to the bookstore, "Gaston" sung by Gaston and his drinking buddies in his honor, "Be Our Guest" as the enchanted castle's staff entertains Belle for dinner, "Something There" a duet sung by the leads as they begin to fall in love and the title song "Beauty and the Beast" sung by Mrs. Potts as the newfound friends waltz beneath an opulent chandelier. This romantic song was popularized when a young Celine Dion, not yet a major star, sang a duet with Peabo Bryson for the soundtrack. With its theme of beauty found within, a woman's courage and virtue rewarded, the movie is also a sort of women's empowerment film for girls. Belle, the first Disney princess of the 90's, is strong, resourceful and dares to be different. Far from being a damsel in distress, it is she who rescues the Beast from doom and fights the villain Gaston by firmly renouncing him as a lover. Brilliant music and songs by Alan Menken and a splendid cinematography that used stunning computer-graphic art for such scenes as the ballroom waltz, this film was ahead of its time and marked the beginning of the great Disney films of the 90's - Aladdin, Lion King, Pocahontas, Hunchback of Notre Dame and others, all which used special effects made of computer graphic art. For this film, animators drew inspiration from Romantic 19th century art(Fragonard and Bouche) and from Loire Valley castles. Animators also drew from Cocteau's 1946 live-action version. The look of this film, the attention to detail, is a real winner and it's a pity that Disney does not return to pure animation. For me, this is the zenith of Disney animation and a representation of classic Disney at its best in the 1990's. This is a wonderful film for both young and old and looks as great as it ever did, thanks to restorations as seen on the new DVD version, where you can enjoy seeing how the film was made and scenes that were never part of the original theatrical release. Enjoy this romantic classic today with a date or with the whole family.

Before any hate comments I like to point out like I said in the title, it's a classic and I like it. It has a good story, great animation, wonderful music etc. but after reading the plot of Beauty and the Beast book on Wikipedia I think it could've worked better. In the original, Belle is one of the six children in a wealthy merchant family, now you might think she'll be bratty or selfish and all that clichéd stuff but really she sounds very nice and kind, as of course Disney had adopted the personality into the movie so credit for that. Though the sisters really have that 'ugly step sister' appeal like from Cinderella treating Belle like a servant and secretly taunt her. The merchant lost his wealth in a storm and was forced to live in a small farmhouse. Years later, the merchant, found out that one of his ships had survived the causality and returned to the city to find out in the end that wealth has been seized to pay off his debt. Beforehand, thinking that the ship might have something valuable promised his daughters some jewels and dresses and Belle a rose, which is from the beast's garden, more of the plot can be seen on Wikipedia. The book's plot pretty much works better then Disney's adaptation and as I said before, the movie is a classic. But I love stories that has also have no villains, Gaston is a really memorable villain, not plotting revenge or wanting to kill someone, well minus beast so he can win Belle, but not for glory. He's just pompous, self-centred person. But films like 'My Neighbour Totoro' works without a villain, it's shows the struggle of the main character. As much as I love this film and its story, the book version would've been a better choice to adapt. As of the movie. I love the side characters and climax, and I do accept the Disney version by the way. The songs are fun and the animation very fluid and colourful.

This is, without a doubt, the best film Disney ever made. Now that's saying a lot, as the studio also made "Bambi", "Little Mermaid" and many other great films. "Beauty and the Beast" represents everything they could do right in a movie. The music is fantastic and couldn't be better (mostly because many of the songs had a great sense of humor), the characters wonderful and the story promoted some of the most wonderful values you could want. Belle is a completely admirable young lady--and I was thrilled that my own daughters could watch her and learn about her strength and integrity. And, the film is fun--yet will also bring a tear to the eye of even the most jaded viewer. Not surprisingly the film was nominated for Best Picture--it's just a shame that an animated film will probably never take home this Oscar. Well worth seeing and owning--a truly great film.

Yes, this movie has excellent art and animation (certainly a contender for the best-looking 2D movie), some of the best songs in a Disney musical (and that's high praise considering their excellent repertoire), and the voice acting leaves nothing to be desired.Most of the supporting characters have charming personalities.The battle scene is thrilling despite the fact that it's basically a horror B-movie setup (a bunch of furniture in a castle attacking peasants). The development of the romance between Belle and "the Best" is also tastefully done.In short, the film is a great achievement in cinema from a technical standpoint, but it's all mixed up in terms of the messages it sends:1. It's about how people should look past shallow considerations when falling in love (particularly appearance). Belle falls in love with the Beast despite the fact that he's... well, a beast, so it's not shallow at all, right?Wrong. Not only does he end up turning into a handsome man, but he appears to be fabulously wealthy and has a bunch of magical devices at his disposal. This completely unwinds any supposed moral high ground.2. And what does Belle fall in love with anyway? She's shown to love books but the Beast doesn't seem to even know how to read. She implies she wants to see the wide world but by all appearanes the Best is a local boy who's tied to the castle. She doesn't like Gaston presumably because he's arrogant and aggressive but...3. The Beast is extremely abusive, jailing a lost old man, kidnapping Belle, terrorizing her on screen throughout the beginning of the movie, and treating his servants as slaves. Not only that, but he got into the predicament he did for being shallow, entitled, and cruel.Side Note: the servants apparently LOVE to serve. It's not just a job for them but their passion. I find it strange.Disney's playing with fire here. The Beast is shown to be pretty rotten and now suddenly he meets Belle and becomes a nice guy why?I'm surprised this story keeps getting retold and has survived so long unmodified. Morally, it's a dangerous mess. Logically, the plot doesn't add up.Honourable Mentions: Shrek (2001). I'm sure the movie has its flaws, but it's basically the Beauty and the Beast story with most of the inappropriate hypocritical bits fixed.

I wanted to love this movie, I really did, and it was such a huge disappointment that I absolutely loathed it. I don't care about the Stockholm Syndrome's discussion, that is not what I have a problem with. I had a problem with Belle from the first 5 minutes of the movie. She wants something more from her "provincial life", but all she does is read a book, she does not work; she believes to be better than the "peasants" because she reads instead of, you know, actually working and earning some money. In other words, she is lazy, spoiled and superficial. I wanted to punch by the end of the song.As if the introduction of the characters weren't bad enough, the premises of the story are dumb. Why didn't the beast kill her father? Why make him prisoner? Why bother? Especially if you want to kill him in the next scene? But I persevered and kept watching, trying not to nit-pick to much. However, I couldn't do it: after being imprisoned, all she did was cry in the room instead of being curious or headstrong considering that she was having the big adventure she wanted; after being freed by Lumière and Cogsworth, she does exactly what she was forbidden to do; after crying the whole time, when it is time to play it safe and choose the library, she is adventurous and goes to the west wing. Is this the Belle everyone love? Do I have it right? As if that was not enough, fans are proud to say that Belle fled and returned of her own volition. She is kicked out of the castle! She did not flee! She returned because the Beast saved her life and she was grateful to him, that's all. She is not in love with him and she has not forgiven him. It is beyond me why she actually stayed though, maybe because of the wolves, I don't know.Moving on to the Beast. I didn't care about his personality, what I thought though was that he was supposed to be a kid turned into a beast, tight? Then why do we have him learning to be civilised? He should have more manners than Belle considering he is a prince. This is not the Island of Dr. Moreau where beasts learn to be human, because if that was the case he shouldn't know how to speak either. And how come he doesn't know how to read? How did he spend his days? Sleeping? Fans have said that he learns to be civilised because he wants to, not because of Belle...He had 10 years and he only starts now that there is Belle, and you are telling me it is not because of her? This is the same conundrum present in The Little Mermaid, does Ariel goes to the human world because she wanted to or because of the prince? I tend for the latter in both movies. In the end the Beast is not loved for who he is, he needs to change himself to be accepted, so is Belle really loving the Beast?After that I just shut my brain because everything that followed was too ridiculous. The next day I was still mad, disappointed and sulky, so I ended up watching the French version of 1946. Boy, was that better. I absolutely recommend that version to this one.

Who can resist this beautiful story? I love the fact that even though Belle hated Beast at first, she saw underneath that he was a kind and gentle soul, and didn't care what he looked like on the outside! And what girl hasn't known a Gaston in their lives? I thought it was so great how he was put in his place! All the voiceovers are amazing, especially Robby Benson as Beast. Another Disney masterpiece.

... and be entertained with 90 minutes of mesmerising fairy tale telling at its very best. Feel as enchanted as the castle and its occupants as your spirits and emotions rise and fall then rise again. Rejoice in the spectacular finale, while relishing the craft of these incredible animators, musicians, writers, their genius and imagination but, above all, let the meaning and the message distil within you - avoid the shallowness of appearance, don't judge a book by its cover, we're all so much more than what we present.

This is the most amazing movie i have ever seen. Everything about it is magnificent. The music goes perfect with the scenes and mood of the film, and the characters have personalities that go with the flow of the movie. Every event leads to another one and keeps you watching. I cant even describe the overall feeling after you watch it. It will make you feel every emotion there is. There are parts where you will be angry at the movie, but another when u are happy and over joyed and yet, sad and crying your eyes out. The old story of a young girl finding the true beauty within from a beast is captured very well. It can be told anyway but Disney really makes it the best. The animation is still beautiful even now when they have higher technology. Overall even know it is still my favorite movie and i do watch it every time i get a chance. I am practically obsessed it is so good. I do have other favorites like the little mermaid and Tarzan and the lion king but nothing can compare to this.Every time i see it i am taken away into it until the end. I always wish that this story could somehow come true and i could be there. It makes you dream and wish and hope. The strong scenes for me are: -when the prince is just transformed into the beast and with the rose as the camera zooms away from the castle. -after Gaston proposes to belle and she runs out of the house asking for a more "provincial life" and lays in the grass -the library scene -and definitely the ballroom scene just fills me with joy and tears at the same time -and lastly when the beast is dying and belle mutters that she loves himWhat really makes it the best is the voices too. Just listening to hte music without the movie can make you feel the same way. i am a real Disney lover but i would highly recommend this one above all others.

I still remember watching this movie when I was very little. I did not appreciate it as much then, but now because I am older, I can cherish this blessed masterpiece. The music in this movie is one of the best film scores ever and contains the catchiest Disney tunes. Who could ever forget the ever-popular ballroom scene? This movie, in my opinion was Alan Menken and Howard Ashman's best! I also think that this is the best Disney movie made after the great Walt Disney passed away.I had the opportunity of seeing the Special Edition on IMAX. What an experience! The scenes were breathtaking to see on such a large screen. I even found the new song "Human Again" very entertaining.It's such a shame that Disney hasn't made a movie like this since "Mulan". "Beauty and the Beast" will be forever remembered as the epitome of modern-day Disney movies (and should have won the Best Picture Oscar instead of "The Silence of the Lambs"). Bravo to Disney!

This movie is without doubt the best animated movie of all time. The artistry was perfect. I was spellbound at the animated sequences to the songs "Be Our Guest" and "Beauty and the Beast" especially. The characters were very well drawn, and because of the dark and colourful backgrounds, the film looked beautiful. The songs are fantastic. Another movie with great songs is "The Hunchback of Notre Dame"(which has the best beginning to a Disney movie). In fact, all the Alan Menken scores are brilliant, with the exception of Home On The Range, which is one of the weaker Disney efforts. My personal favourites, were the songs I just mentioned, and "Gaston" was great fun too. The incidental music was the best in any Disney movie, and that is the same with the other Menken scores. The music in the transformation of the Beast was phenomenal, as well as the animation, and reminded me of the last movement of Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique, which is really frightening. Another Disney with great incidental music is "The Lion King". The story is quite simply one of the best love stories ever, and the characters are wonderful. Belle was voiced beautifully by Paige O'Hara, who has a beautiful singing voice. I love Belle, she is beautiful, clever and strong, and is one of the best Disney characters for those reasons. Gaston was made into a complex villain, and quite narcissistic(great idea Disney). When he was nasty he was quite frightening, and Richard White can really sing. Jerry Orbach and David Ogden Stiers were really entertaining as Lumiere and Cogsworth,(I just love how witty, elegant and debonair Lumiere is) and Angela Lansbury gives a brilliant rendition of the title song. The best voice over was that of the Beast, who was very frightening, and there were some parts that were truly sensitive. Why are some people fussed about him as a human? Remember, true beauty comes from within. In conclusion, an essential to your Disney collection with a very poignant ending. 10/10. Bethany Cox

The 30th animated Disney "classic" is, without a doubt, one of the most famous Disney classics, which is a good and a bad thing either, because its success tends somewhat to overshadow other very good Disney classics (often better than this). Or maybe what happens is that this movie gets the deserved attention, while others sadly do not have the same luck (such as "The Rescuers", "The Aristocats", "The Fox and the Hound", "The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh", "Robin Hood" and others). That is the worst aspect of this movie's success. So, as one can see, it's not all roses.Nevertheless, "Beauty and the Beast" is one of Disney's most original movies. To a point, it is every bit as creative and imaginative as "Alice in Wonderland", except that it isn't as eccentric as that one.One thing that is very obvious from the beginning is that this is a french tale. It's quite easy to understand that because all the characters have french names. Plus, they often use french words such as "Bonjour" (which means "Good morning" in french). Lumière even uses the word «Sacré bleu» once. However, it's not very clear the exact place of our story. All we know is that it's somewhere in France.As much as I don't like all of the movie's characters, some of them are very charming. For example: Lumière (the candelabra), Cogsworth (a clock), Mrs. Potts (a teapot), Chip (the cute little teacup), Belle, Maurice (Belle's father, who is also an inventor) and Philippe (the horse). It's funny that a horse is named Philippe (Philip in french) - LOL.Belle is one of Disney's most beautiful chicks, together with Jasmine, Ariel and the Blue Fairy. Belle is also classy, charming, carefree, nonconformist, conservative and nice. All of this makes her an interesting character and, above all, different from the rest of her village's population, who see her as a strange girl because she likes to read and also because she can't stand Gaston (unlike the rest of women) neither the idea of being his "little wife". Belle is appropriately named like that (her name means beautiful in french).Gaston (who is considered the villain of the movie) is a character who's got no culture at all, being the epitome of pure strength and no brain (like Biff Tannen from "Back to the Future"). Gaston is a tall, muscled, vain, arrogant, snobbish and chauvinistic guy with a heart of stone.On the other hand, Gaston's follower and helper, Lefou, is more of a goofy guy than anything else, nearly like a comic relief. No wonder he is named Lefou (which means "The Fool" in french).Monsieur D'Arque is a strange man with a sinister appearance that makes him seem to come from a terror film. For some children, he might be a bit of a creepy character.My favorite character is Chip (he is the cutest of all, besides, his natural sweetness and innocence helps). However, Lumière and Belle come incredibly close to Chip when it comes to my favorite characters of this film.The soundtrack isn't entirely spectacular, but the romantic ballad "Beauty and the Beast" is beautiful. It has 2 versions. Angela Lansbury's version is good, but the original one by Celine Dion and Peabo Bryson is extraordinary.As for the cast, it is brand new comparing to older Disney films and most of them do well. Paige O'Hara and Angela Lansbury are among the best ones, but those who steal the show are Bradley Pierce as Chip and Jerry Orbach as Lumière. Jerry Orbach gives so much life and energy to Lumière, with such a convincing french accent.The best part of the whole film is the famous ballroom dance sequence, which is wonderful, brilliant and very artistic (the graphics also make it look incredibly close to a live-action ballroom).Generally speaking, this film has the main ingredients of an animated Disney movie: great picture quality (good designs, backgrounds, sceneries and colors), very good animation, creativity, originality, some charming characters, some romance, adventure, darkness, suspense, classic humor and so on...The Prince (that is, the Beast as a human being) almost looks like Jean Michel Jarre with that long hair. That said, his change of heart during the movie is amazing. From a person who is spoiled, selfish, unkind and with an explosive temper, he becomes kind, gentle and even romantic.Although the sequence "Human Again" was originally gonna be included in the movie, it was removed in the final version. It was recovered for the DVD. Yet, the version I consider the true one is the one without the sequence "Human Again", even if that one is not *officially* the movie's true version. But for me the true version is the one I know since 1991. It's the way I always knew it, so it makes perfect sense.

'' The Beauty and The Beast'' is one of the greatest stories ever told and one of the best movies from Disney that I watched in my life. I always identified myself with Belle, the girl who does not belong the place where she is lives and also with a big taste of reading lots of books. Our story takes part in France in 18 century, and our main character Belle is the prettiest girl in the city she lives, being the object of the affection and interest of Gaston, an arrogant man that has the sympathy of the people of the region.(And also considered a big catch for the girls of the city)But Belle is not interested in him and always imagined her life different from the domestic life people always imagine for her.One day, Belle's father, an inventor, was going to sell one of his inventions and lost his ways, being attacked by wild animals and entering in a big dark mansion apparently without a owner. He stays there for a time, but soon the Beast comes up and attacks him,making him a prisoner in his castle.Belle stays worried and goes after her father in the mansion and there she sees the violent and awful beast who locked her father. She then makes a deal: Belle agrees to stay in the dark castle with the horrible beast in return to her father's freedom. But with the time, Belle is going to discover all the magic that is beyond the castle, including the talking objects and even a nice side that the Beast has.This story is very inspiring and very beautiful! =)

Decent adaptation of the classic fable.A prince is turned into a beast by a witch. He is doomed to spend the rest of his days in that way unless he experiences true love by a certain age. Meanwhile, in a nearby village a beautiful girl, Belle, is being harassed by the local casanova, Gaston. Then one day her father is imprisoned by the Beast...Sweet movie, though dull in spells. Part of the problem is that you know how it is going to end. There is some originality though - the animated pots, candlesticks etc - and these generally provide the most entertaining moments.Unfortunately, it is a musical. No particularly good songs: some are okay, some are quite forgettable and some are even a bit irritating. You know things aren't going to go well when Celine Dion sings the theme song...Kids should enjoy it. Adults can take it or leave it.

BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, in my opinion, is a delightful Disney romance. If you ask me, Gaston (voice of Richard White) was truly diabolical. Still, in my opinion, he was very good-looking. On the other hand, the songs were truly superior. Well, despite the fact that every song in this film was good, I would have to say that the title song was the best. This was probably be because she did most of the singing. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say everyone involved in delightful Disney romance to all of you who haven't seen it. You're in for a good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with a friend, and watch it.

Ah yes, a tale as old as time: Stockholm syndrome. Seriously, there isn't really another way to describe the plot of 'Beauty And The Beast (1991)'. The Beast straight-up keeps Belle prisoner and treats her awfully (after kidnapping her dad, too), but I guess it's okay because she soon falls in love with him? Obviously, that's a really weird and rather problematic message. Their dynamic closely resembles that of an abusive relationship, one that perpetuates that harmful belief that it's a woman's duty to put up with a man's bad behaviour and change him for the better. Yikes. The piece is supposed to be a story about how beauty isn't skin deep, about how you shouldn't judge a book by its cover; this theme is completely undercut by the fact that Belle is apparently the most beautiful person in France, that Beast is a dog of a bloke regardless of the fact that he's literally a dog of a bloke (I mean, is he really any better than Gaston?) and that the curse is completely undone at the end and the Beast transforms into a handsome man. Plus, the servants mention that they've not been able to serve someone in ten years and the curse specifically states that it will cement itself, symbolised by the wilting of the pink rose, on the prince's twenty-first birthday, which means that the prince was around eleven years old when the curse was first put on him. That means that the witch (?) decided to ruin a little kid's life because he refused to let a total stranger (who's pretending to be someone they're not, I'll add) into his castle. Bit of a bad move, if I'm honest. Having said all that, the movie itself is generally successful. It features a number of catchy songs and some wonderful animation. It's also generally rather entertaining. There's quite a bit to like if you can ignore its issues, and it seems most people can. Ultimately, it's a decently enjoyable Disney movie that's let down by some unintentionally dodgy theming. 6/10.

Look, I understand that this is one of the favorite animated movies in the public eye and I can mostly see why. However, I just don't feel the same way. Belle is a very bland character, her personality is just she like-a da books. She doesn't really have anything going on. The romance between her and Beast is extremely rushed and out of place, just like "haha stockholm syndrome now they kiss". Gaston is great, of course, as is his song, but the rest of the songs in this movie that DON'T include Gaston for some part of it are mid at best and annoying at worst. Be Our Guest gives me a headache with how little there is going on, and the animation has some spotty moments. The whole movie does in a way, some spots where you can tell the movie still has some of the old era of disney in it. Detailed backgrouns which clash hard with the simpler character designs, it just doesn't look good to me. It's obviously still lavishly animated, a good looking movie. I just wish this movie came a little later into the disney renaissance, the age in its animation shows more than I wish it did. Even outside of its age, a lot of the designs are slacking. LeFou is a whole topic on its own, but even outside of him some of the other background characters (AND EVEN HUMAN BEAST) look really bad. Don't wanna knock it for its visuals too much because it is quite fine in that department and it's not the movie's fault. There's one part of the movie that does genuinely exceed the rest, and that's the aforementioned Gaston. He's a perfect antagonist, contrasting with the story and characters in a way that makes him a threat and a perfect thematic match. I'm gonna rewatch the movie to see if the rest of the movie can match my thoughts on him, but I'm not getting my hopes up.