In the original epic poem, why does Beowulf come back from defeating Grendel's mother carrying Grendel's head? It's an interesting question that has fired literary critics imaginations for a while, and when Robert Zemeckis set out to make his big screen adaptation of the poem, he went beyond merely adapting the text itself. Instead, he took those questions that critics had considered and ran with them dramatically.So, what we end up having isn't so much an adaptation of Beowulf, but an adaptation of a master's thesis on Beowulf.The movie received mixed to positive reviews when it came out. A lot of the negativity seemed connected to the movie's visual style. Expanding what he had done on The Polar Express, Zemeckis used motion capture and computer animation to get realistic-ish looking characters. The problem is that the characters exact right in the middle of the Uncanny Valley. They are too real to treat as cartoons, but not real enough to convince the mind that they are real, so there's a natural barrier that's created because the brain knows it's not real despite a somewhat realistic looking appearance. I was more okay with the look of the film upon its initial release, but less so now.I understand, though, why Zemeckis was enamored with the technique. The freedom as a filmmaker to build the environments he wanted and place the camera wherever he wanted must have been quite enticing. The problem was the effort at getting photo-realistic effects, which end up falling short. A more cartoonish look might have been less jarring for the audience.Moving on, though, the movie's approach to the material, as implied, is really smart. It's not just a monster movie, but an exploration of bravery, heroism, and the costs of power. It takes a different approach than the original poem, but that's fine by me. The seduction of power, and the literal seduction of Grendel's mother, is an interesting approach to take, and I think it works really well. Beowulf must sell his soul to achieve power, but when the bill comes due he doesn't lay down like Hrothgar did. He fights. He reclaims his honor and sense of bravery by having a spectacle infused fight with a dragon. It's a sop to modern movie convention, but it's still fun on its own while refusing to undermine the basic point of the story.Performances, which you mainly need to judge by voices since the faces do have a plastic-like feel that they movie can't escape, are very good. I can see why Zemeckis wanted to cast Ray Winstone as Beowulf because he carries a gravelly voice that matches the vision of the character perfectly, but Winstone is, at the same time, not a body builder with 8 pack abs. Brendan Gleeson is wonderful as Wiglaf, the sad advisor, Anthony Hopkins is wise, sad, and guilt-ridden as Hrothgar, and Angelina Jolie is pure seduction as Grendel's mother. Special nod to Crispin Glover as Grendel, speaking Old English and evoking quite a bit of emotion as a monstrous creature with inside out ears.

I have read Beowulf a couple of times. It's great northern European mythology, and mandatory reading when you are young in my opinion (Along with Norse, Greek and Roman Mythology as well). And though the movie wants to re-write some of the epic, you will need to separate the Hollywood version from the beautiful measure of the original works. Being a work of CGI, you will also have to allow for the flaws of pure CGI work. Very stylized and beautifully colored, it is an epic adventure that elevated Zemeckis' previous work "The Polar Express" to a new level. Polar was beautifully modeled after Chris Van Allsburg illustrations for his book, but Zemeckis' adaptation to the story went a little over the top when it became a musical. Even though most of Beowulf's story line is answered here, it did make me pause and wonder:Why didn't Robert Zemeckis just direct this thing in real life instead of virtual?With the capabilities of dropping in CGI into real life action, this telling of the story could have had so much more of an impact if the expressions were more poignant. Look what he did with "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?"? Zemeckis is fully capable of it. Also, to add to this, when you have CGI characters like Jacksons Gollum and King Kong to compare notes with, the modeling here just isn't up to snuff. I felt the entire movie came off like a gigantic "cut-scene" to a video game than a full featured animated project. I can only give this a little better than a good, hence the exclamation. I do this sadly. You really should see this in a theater, bigger than life. The dragon is excellent, the ugly v/s the beautiful is wild, the sequencing is uneven, though at the end it takes you on a great ride. Oh, and for you people that want to go see Angela Jolie nekkid? IT'S CGI!!! I've seen harder stuff on Fox networks! Seeing my wife and I saw this as a matinée, the crowd was on the sparse side and there was literally no kids present. I couldn't get a solid feeling from the audience though most people as they left seemed genuinely happy with their experience. I'm sure it was PG13'd because of the sequences with Angela, otherwise it would be a solid PG. I wouldn't suggest this for a kid under 8.

Take a thousand year old heroic subject matter, spice it up with a dose of „modern" morals such as „men's only weakness is women" , add a few females according to type – e.g. saints and whores – and shoot this script as a CGI-mix of „Shrek", „300" and popular computer-games: The result is Robert Zemecki's version of „Beowulf". Works alright, the flick, as long as you don't take it seriously. However, whenever the „Shrek"-Elements dominate the scene, the film runs into problems. Queen Wealtheow for instance fatally resembles the green Oger's mom. Besides, almost all Characters have a squint that would make Christopher Lambert at his best look good. Wet hair is still a problem of computer-graphics, too. Otherwise, the film is technically well made and gives you an idea how far Ralph Bakshi might have gone with his concept of graphically alienated live-action.Still, over long stretches the motion-capture-technique is too reminiscent of computer-games to be convincing, and thus one is left with the question which audience this film is aimed at. Gaming kiddies can't watch it because all the ripping and tearing is far too bloody; adult Lord-of-the-Rings-fans will miss the depth of the original poem, despite some nice touches in the script – such as King Hrothgar talking of „Scops" or giving out rings to his thanes in the initial sequence, or Grendel and his mother seeming to talk Anglo-Saxonish. The linguistic climax of the movie is elsewhere, anyway: King Hrothgar, embodied (well, sort of) by Anthony Hopkins, telling his followers that Beowulf „killed the monster and laid his mother... in her grave". How do you translate that for synchronized versions? This sequence gets to the heart of the difference of plot between the script and the heroic poem, i.e. the introduction of the eternal female temptation as motif for the hero's curse. Not a bad idea, really, especially in view of the traditional sword-penis-symbolism that is being exploited thoroughly in this film. Unfortunately, the way they put the idea on screen is cheesy to say the least. Thus Angelina Jolie's computerized curves seem designed to lure the average movie-goer, male, mid-twenties, meager intellect (is that according to statistics?). The hero Beowulf (one can't speak of actors or characters in this film) is modeled on the Gladiator but lacks his character; the monster is a crossbreed of Ent and skinned Gollum; the jokes are laconic (example: "How is your father? – Dead."). Amusing – and once in a while appealing in a darkly beautiful manner, especially when a whiff of northern Epic or landscape transcends the CGI. In these moments one gets an inkling of what might have been done with this script. Even the final fight with the dragon is impressive. But why does the dragon have a heart, small as a cow's? Why does the coast-guard sit in front of his fire in the pouring rain? And why does the final, unbearably long shot have to be so unbearably kitsch? Shame, really. You can either have grim realism, or you can have exaggerated, bad-taste fantasy. Try to amalgamate both, and the thing falls apart.

It takes a while for your eyes to get used to the uncanny animation, but once you overcome the ordeal, Beowulf turns into an outrageously entertaining ride. The performances are solid, the visuals are unique, the score is uplifting, and it has great action sequences. It's really good fun for adults of all ages.

*The following is a review of the digital 3D version showing at select theaters: Robert Zemeckis has always been a trailblazer with film technology. He was among the first to utilize CGI in "Death Becomes Her" and with his adaptation of the oldest surviving epic poem in the English language, he perfects the life-like digital computer animation he first experimented with in "The Polar Express". Like his canon of films over the years, "Beowulf" is an eye-popping mixed bag of cinematic tricks.The animation has come to a point where it is eerily life-like. In "Beowulf" every blade of grass, every tree branch, and every strand of hair has been painstakingly detailed. And while it is hard to tell the difference between the digital Angelina Jolie and the real Angelina Jolie, there's still something about the human face, the nuances of the muscular features, the emotion running beneath, that this technology will never capture. It still depicts hollow, cold clones of real human beings that could never fully replace 3D flesh and blood.What makes "Beowulf" so entertaining is the digital 3D technology. It creates some breathtaking vistas where you feel as if the landscapes are moving through you. In some of the more horrific scenes with Grendel, you'll find yourself jumping out of your skin. Zemeckis is like a magician with this technology. He's able to bleed something out of nothing by knowing how to get the reactions he wants from his audience with just the right sound effect, camera angle, and quick-cut to complete his trick. It's often ugly, but quite breathtaking.Zemeckis loses some ground when he relies too much on juvenile machismo grandstanding to further character development. Sure, I love a good death by chandelier scene or a man getting ripped in half by a monster bit as much as the next guy, but all the bawdy humor wears thin. Even lamer was the scene where Beowulf fights Grendel in the buff, which contained almost as many laugh inducing sight gags as the scene where Bart skateboarded nude through Springfield in this summer's "The Simpsons Movie." The mixed bag of tricks and sometimes slow build-up, however, eventually lead to a totally thrilling finale where Beowulf does battle with the dragon his misdeeds begot. In 3D, it's nerve-shattering fun. As an action adventure film, it makes the mark.Ultimately you realize why this story has survived over 1200 years. "Beowulf" makes legendary the idea of a hero's fallibility and the global consequences of the sins of the father. These are universal themes that have been sung again and again in everything from Shakespeare to this year's best film, "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead." While the technology used to make this film may seem dated in a few years, the story will live on, and this just may be the definitive "Beowulf" for high school English teachers to use in their lame attempts to connect with their students. The savvier kids won't be fooled, but there's worse ways to pass the time in class.

It seems we have a new cinematic fad coming into fashion... the genre of mythological action. It began with '300' (a film I really enjoyed), and the first that stands to benefit from 300's success is Beowulf. Beowulf is the newest film from Robert Zemeckis. Zemeckis implements many of the same visual themes of his last project, the heart warming Polar Express, with varied success.Beowulf tells the story of the kingdom of King Hrothgar (a delightfully campy Anthony Hopkins)which is currently being terrorized by a monster named Grendel (Crispin Glover). Help comes in the form of mighty Beowulf (Ray Winstone), who arrives with an army of 14 men and his right hand man, Wiglaf (Brendan Gleeson). It his his job to slay the monster. However, he must also deal with Grendel's mother (Angelina Jolie). Beowulf is opposed by Unferth (John Malkovich), and has also been paying close attention to the king's wife, Wealthow (Robin Wright Penn).Perhaps the most surprising element of the film is its sly, wink and a nod, sense of humor. This can be viewed two ways. The first view is one of enjoyment and laughter. However, it is hard to comply when we are asked to feel or identify with these characters after so many scenes presenting them as mere caricatures.As expected, Beowulf is visually stunning. I'd argue it is the one category where this film bests 'Polar Express'. The 3-D photography is shockingly good. It is a film I wouldn't want to imagine in the traditional two dimension format. I strongly advise anyone who is going to see this to view the film in 3-D. Without it, the film would be borderline un enjoyable. The highlight is by far the final battle scene,which just begs you to forget the film's past misdeeds. Close, but no dice.

In Denmark, A.D. 507, the realm of King Hrothgar (Anthony Hopkins) is threatened by the tormented demon Grendel (Crispin Glover) that attacks the locals in their celebrations. The Danish king offers a reward for the death of the creature, attracting to Herot the brave Geet warrior Beowulf (Ray Winstone) that seeks for glory. After a fierce battle, Beowulf defeats the demon and after receiving an old relic as reward, he finds his men slaughtered in the party saloon of the castle. King Hrothgar advises that the Grendel's mother (Angelina Jolie) was the responsible for the bloodshed and Beowulf chases her in the lake where she lives. The creature takes the form of a seductive woman and seduces Beowulf with a promise of becoming an invincible and wealthy king if he makes love to her and gives his golden relic to her. Years later, King Beowulf feels the aftermath of his sin."Beowulf" is a dark tale in an age in the beginning of the Christianity and a unique experience with the entire movie made of computer-generated image (CGI). There is no live action, but the stylization of the characters and images is amazing. In accordance with the director Robert Zemeckis, this resource allowed to make this movie with lower costs, using unusual movements of camera. There are silly moments, like for example Beowulf fighting completely naked against Grendel, or the ambiguous character of Unferth, but in the end this movie is entertaining. I only imagine how frustrating might be for actors and actresses performing in blue screen without interaction or set. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "A Lenda de Beowulf" ("The Legend of Beowulf")

This film has impressive special effects and would be okay as an adventure fantasy but it should not be marketed as the epic poem.Also it has been given the wrong rating and should be an R. Why all the changes? Grendel's mother was not a gold painted,nude,Barbie doll in stiletto heels.Grendel was not Hrothgar's son. Beowulf killed the witch he did not have sex with her.The dragon was not Beowulf's son and had no connection with the witch.Beowulf was not made Hrothgar's heir,nor did he marry his widow and become king of the Danes.In the poem Beowulf returned to Geatland after slaying Grendel. He remained the Geat king's best warrior,supporting him and the son who succeeded him. Only after the new king died did Beowulf become king of the Geats until his own death in later years.Also, why all the nudity in this film? This was Scandinavian northern Europe in the Dark Ages - folk would have Bean in furs and heavy woollens most of the time.The cartoon-like actors didn't help either with bland faces and expressionless eyes.A far better movie 'Beowulf and Grendel' was made in 2004,filmed on location in Iceland,with an excellent cast of real actors and no CGI. The Iceland born Canadian director,Sturla Gunnarson,tried to get back to what could have been the original story that evolved over the centuries into the legend.It was gritty,made on a shoestring and had only limited cinema release,but thankfully it is available on DVD and is well worth a look.There is also an excellent companion DVD documentary called 'Wrath of Gods'which tells the incredible story of the filming of the movie, and the struggle to complete it with financial problems and the absolute hell of shooting it at the start of the Icelandic winter.The new 'Beowulf' has also tried to ride on the coattails of '300', but again it suffers by not having real actors showing their courage and emotions.'300' scenes were like paintings come to life and the Spartans' impressive physiques and fighting skills were real,after hard training,with no computer enhancement.An interesting point is the actor who links these three films - charismatic Gerard Butler.He was fiery yet also sensitive as King Leonidas and the earlier Beowulf and made the roles his own.This 2007 film is a missed opportunity to bring the epic poem to life.

Beowulf (2007) is in my DVD collection and is also available on Netflix. The storyline is about Beowulf who arrives in a town plagued by a curse where a deity and her son ravage the land. When Beowulf fights the son and confronts the deity tough choices will be made that will determine his future and direction. This movie is directed by Robert Zemeckis (Forrest Gump) and contains the voices of Anthony Hopkins (Silence of the Lambs), Angelina Jolie (Tomb Raider), Ray Winstone (The Departed), Crispin Glover (Willard), Robin Wright (The Princess Bride) and John Malkovich (In the Line of Fire). The storyline for this is very good and contains some fantastic twists and turns. The animation is out of this world and looks very much like the actors used for the voices. The cast is very well selected and fit the characters and storyline to perfection. The action scenes are absolutely amazing, especially the depiction of the creatures and sorcery. The kill scenes and gore is also remarkable. The full circle of the storyline is excellent as is the absolute final scene. This is a bit underrated and is definitely a must see that I would score a 8.5/10.

Normally I loathe CGI, but here, it's necessary. And it works - well.Here's my breakdown:STORY:
As I understand it, the story was originally just a poem, but it was filled out nicely.Warrior stories are endless, but this has a plot twist I've not seen or read before, and it's pivotal for the story.I could have done without Jolie and the copious amount of lust, but men like their stories of war and women. Oy ...ACTING:
This includes the "acting" of Anthony Hopkins, a brilliant British actor who I've followed since his earlier years.Otherwise I thought the characters were decent, though their development is not the emphasis.ENTERTAINMENT:
Moderate to high value, but as always, it depends on your tastesTEMPO:
Quite good, though it must have crazed blood and carnage to satiate the lusts of menCINEMATOGRAPHY:
For a CGI film I was very impressed. What's intriguing is how difficult it is to "draw" the human mouth while speaking.There are so many muscles in the face, jaw, and tongue so those subtleties are lost, but an excellent attempt.MUSIC / SOUND:
A beautiful song "Hero comes home" but otherwise far too much "epic" musicDIRECTING / WRITING:
Director: Zemeckis has a very impressive resume, and this reinforces his ability to handle a wide variety of genre.I've seen many of his films, and nearly all have left strong impressions.Writers: While I thought this story was reasonably well done, the combined works of the two screenplay writers
is flat or filled with TV waste.Is it a good film? YesShould you watch this once? YesRating: 7.5.

For over 1000 years Beowulf the epic has described Beowulf as a mighty hero who killed Grendel AND Grendel's mother. He became a mighty King in his own right after protecting the existing incumbent and his son. At the end of a life of courage and honesty he sets out to fight one last battle, KNOWING he may be going to his death but willing to protect his people for one last time. During the final battle with the Fire spewing serpent, Beowulf was losing, but one of his companions remembered his duty and where others deserted Beowulf, Wiglaf returned to stand by his dying lord, shielding him and dealing a stroke that abated the Serpent's fire, enabling Beowulf to deal the death stroke to the serpent with his battle knife. Finally after the death of the serpent, and the subsequent death of his dear lord from his wounds, Wiglaf berates the cowards who deserted their lord and made them feel their shame.A short synopsis of the Epic of Beowulf.What Beowulf is presented in this movie?A pervert who sleeps with a Demon, holds his lands at her behest, abhors his life and spawns a mutant.Wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong, so wrong it is not remotely funny.The main thing that bothers me is that those who see the film will think it is in any way accurate (even in the fight against Grendel Epic Beowulf stated he scorns to carry sword or shield he does mention his shirt of mail!) and a tale of unblemished heroism that has lasted fire and reformation over 10 centuries gets buried by a below average CGI flick with a bigger advertising budget.

I didn't expect a lot from 'Beowulf', for lots of reasons, most of which were to do with the casting: incorrigibly cockney Ray Winstone as a warrior from what's now southern Sweden; wacky John Malkovich as a cynical counselor; loony Crispin Glover as a flesh-rending monster, and weirdest of all, Angelina Jolie as the monster's mother...thaet waes wundorlic castyng, as the poet might have put it. Then there was the way they did the whole thing in CGI, running the risk of making it all look a bit rubbery. Finally, Robert Zemeckis is the director and my great respect for him plummeted through the floor and into the crawlspace after he presided over the insufferable 'Forrest Gump'.Nevertheless, this is a lot better than I thought it would be. I missed the 3D incarnation as we were watching the DVD rather than the cinema release, but after a while you stop looking at the CGI and start enjoying it. This is a 'Beowulf' where the story, although different from the poem, is actually very far from shabby.Without giving too much away, the main difference from the poem is that in the poem, there is no connection between the monster Grendel and his mother on one hand, and the dragon in the latter half of the poem on the other hand. In the film, a connection exists. Neil Gaiman and Roger Avary do a professional job of tying it all together in a satisfying Hollywood way, without betraying the basic darkness and sadness of the story; it's not like Beowulf rides off into the sunset with Wiglaf at the end. Crispin Glover is genuinely scary as the tormented and raw-boned Grendel, whose main problem is that he just can't stand the sound of people having fun, although since most of this fun consists of hairy men singing lewd songs you can see his point. Angelina Jolie's animated self spends all her on screen time walking around without any clothes on, something that apparently gave Jolie a blush when she saw a cut of the movie. (One of the more eerie things about this film is that the cartoon Angelina Jolie looks marginally more realistic than the actress herself.)Despite an accent that's more Stockwell than Geatland, Ray Winstone does a fine, sombre job as the hero, although my wife thought that the animated Winstone looked more like Sean Bean. Brendan Gleeson does a splendid job in the niche he's carved for himself of Hairy Sidekick. The acting honours, or at least the animation honours, go to Robin Wright Penn (or whoever worked on her character) as the pale and melancholy queen; she has moments of subtle hesitation and sadness that struck me as a triumph of CGI acting. There is much excellent smiting, some of it unfortunately toned down a little in order to keep a PG-13 rating - so we don't actually get to see Grendel biting men's heads off, just people's reactions to him doing so. Most importantly, the story is not a travesty of the original. It's thoughtful and interesting, as you'd expect from a writer of Gaiman's quality (if not from the author of 'Killing Zoe') and contains some striking meditations on the power of legend and reputation. Plus, there's a really huge kick-ass dragon. 'Beowulf' is a strange and unexpected treat.

I mean I like some of the fights and stuff and it's not really that bad but it really had some dumb stuff might get the weird King and not even taking a hint that his wife is a shame of him and how she never really shed a tear when hrothgar died and I like Beowulf because he's somewhat strong and stuff and he has a huge problem with lying like what happened with the mermaid in the whole thing with Grendel mother although yeah there were some pretty good battle scenes especially the final battle with the dragon and it proves that his friend was loyal to the end. But I also some scenes which are kind of weird but I don't want to even say it. But one thing is really weird which they should have had made a sequel but I don't know about what happened at the end with Beowulf friend and Grendel's mother.Well anyways I give this movie 7.

Short answer: If you love the old Anglo-Saxon poem Beowulf, do not see this movie. You will be nauseated.Longer answer: In the Dungeons and Dragons community, there is an old joke that the characters "kill things and take their stuff." Well, Neil Gaiman and Roger Avary managed to kill Beowulf and take his stuff. Then they proceeded to kill Hrothgar, the helm of the Shieldings and take his stuff. Then they killed Grendel and took its stuff. Then, they killed Wealtheow and took her stuff. And so on, and so forth. These two imbeciles with Underwoods (an orangutan could have come up with a more sensitive treatment of one of the seminal pieces of English literature!) completely changed the tone of the poem from a serious heroic epic to just another post-modern round of "no more heroes" buffoonery.The literary atrocities of Messers Gaiman and Avary upon the source material are as follows: 1. The poem has been dechristianized: On the one hand, it does take out a glaring anachronism (the action of the poem takes place during the Migration Period of the AD 400s-500s, when they would still be following the traditions of the Aesir religion, but the poem was written down in a very Christianized context in England, and the anachronism does add a richness to the language) The only sop to the underpinnings of the source material come in a discussion between two urinating Danes over the relative merits of Christianity and Aesir-worship, and later when Unferth suggests praying to Christ as well as Odin, a suggestion that Hrothgar rejects out of hand (perhaps a reference to the opposite situation in the poem, where the Danes throw off Christianity for a time, hoping that the old gods will smite Grendel where the Christian ones had apparently failed).2. It is implied very heavily that Beowulf was a liar and braggart in his earlier exploits, including the race with Breca: As with many of the other changes, it seems to be part of a deliberate campaign by Gaiman and Avary to strip away the heroic nature of the source material, turning Beowulf into just another trendy 21st-century flawed anti-hero.3. The characters often speak with a much more modern speech pattern (see, for instance, Unferth's first confrontation with Beowulf, where he comes off as much more smarmy than in the poem) that is jarring to the ear and that often seems to lead, yet again, into Gaiman and Avary's unspoken goal of de-heroizing, de-mythologizing, and de-bunking the poem.4. Beowulf does not kill Grendel's Mother: In the poem, it's reported as fact that Beowulf kills her after a ferocious struggle. Nowhere in the poem does it suggest that she seduces him and he lies about killing her. Again, it's the old song of "everything you know is false -- there are no true heroes." 5. Beowulf fighting in the nude: Beowulf does forswear the use of arms in fighting Grendel, but nowhere does it say that he would fight the monster in the all-together, tackle-out (with only strategically-placed objects protecting his modesty). In fighting with Grendel's Mother, it is explicitly stated that he is wearing chain-mail armor and that that saves his life. I'm giving a pass to her appearance, as it's never stated exactly what either she or Grendel actually were supposed to look like.6. Hrothgar is almost explicitly stated to be Grendel's father: No, no, NO! Nowhere in the poem was any mention of Grendel's father made, least of all it being Hrothgar, whom Grendel's Mother would not have been able to have "known" anyway, as he was a consecrated king, and it is implied that Cain's kin could not go near signs of rightful royalty. (Cain, the first murderer, who is claimed to be the ancestor of Grendel's kind, not "Cain," the not-appearing-in-the-poem whipping boy of Unferth's, that is.) 7. Hrothgar and Wealtheow have no issue, because Wealtheow will not sleep with Hrothgar due to his sleeping with Grendel's Mother, and the subsequent romantic subtext between her and Beowulf: Wrong again. Leaving behind the fact that Wealtheow probably was not as nubile in the poem as in the movie and showed no romantic interest in Beowulf whatsoever, she and Hrothgar had two sons, and as mentioned before Hrothgar had not slept with Grendel's Mother.8. Hrothgar gives his kingdom over to Beowulf and then commits suicide by jumping off the tower of Heorot: At this point, I walked out of the theater and demanded my money back, as the movie had officially jumped the shark with no hopes of return.In short, the movie was little more than a parody, a lampoon on a great epic.

The first risk about this version of "Beowulf" is to see it as one of Zemeckis eccentricities. A technique used for a sort of childish game without limits. The second view discovers the purpose of the game - to propose the right essence of poem. The fluidity and dramatism of plot. The bitter flavor of confrontations. And the seed of the victory. Impressive, shocking in few scenes, it is a precise exploration of a world who becomes less familiar. Because, behind shadows and animation, violence and nudity, the message of "Beowulf" becomes more clear. And usefull. And, maybe, this is the most important thing in its case.

The movie's OK, I think; won't go into details. The thing I wondered most about is the research done about the Danish country...or lack of same. It seems that those who did the research may have visited Denmark's neighbours Norway or Sweden and decided that that's how all Scandinavian countries look like. However, Denmark - my home country - looks nothing like what is depicted in this movie. Never has. The geography of Denmark is that of a rather flat country. We have hills, yes, but not mountains, and certainly not cliffs. Beowulf lands his ship on a beach with large cliffs in the background. Not one single place in Denmark looks like this. The same thing goes for the place of the king's hall. No place like that in Denmark. Just an interesting thought from a Danish fellah...

.....and I'm not sure about the 6-10...perhaps it's for the 3-D, which is really quite a spectacular achievement...being able to essentially move your head around in an environment and look this way and that, choosing to focus on what you will.....But, the computer animation is nothing more than an all-inclusive production design, which is fine- all films have to have a unifying production design. But to paint over real actors, when they are already being used seems a terrible waste, when the technology still can't render the human form believable. They're coming closer, but the actor's main tool, his face and mouth, still have yet to be fully realized.Motion capture gets the broad strokes of body movement, giving the body a sense of mass on-screen, which is why this technique looks so much better than the digital avatar that stands in for Toby McGuire in the Spiderman films. Spidy has no sense of mass when it isn't McGuire. But all the actors in Beowulf do not have realistically expressive faces, and consequently the film falls apart. Given that the plot is thin gruel, not worthy of a two-hour plus film, Zemeckis would have been better off to use the techniques employed in "Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow" and let the real actors play around in a digital environment. The photorealism would be intact, and the actors would be allowed to bring all their chops to bear.To be sure, motion capture is fine when the actors are covered in digital make-up a la Gollum, and I'm sure Ray Winstone appreciates the fitness programme that he did not have to embark on to get himself ripped for this role, but that's it! So what's the point? Filmgoers have been willingly suspending their disbelief for the sake of buying the fantasy since the original King Kong, and Fritz Lang's Metropolis. Ray Harryhausen was delivering the goods way before digital technology came about.This film works only as a technological exercise. Someday they will be able to replicate an actor's facial features exactly, mimicking the skin and muscle contractions that make the human face such a magnificent tool for the performer. But until then, why not use the real thing? And none of this substitutes for telling a good story. Beowulf is a sad commentary on American films that make technique king over substance. That's why Andy Warhol isn't Rembrandt.

Given the power of the cast and the budget, you perhaps hope for a movie which is stunningly entertaining and in some way expands your consciousness, if only for a brief 90 minutes or so. Unfortunately you get neither, just an action movie with a rather twisted and unhistorical plot. The acting does not shine through the CGI very well. Maybe it's because I am in my 50s and did not grow up with CGI, but I keep feeling like I am watching a cartoon, which is to say the least distracting.I can certainly understand that in such spectacles as the monster fight, CGI offers at least an approximation of realism. But in scenes where human interaction predominates, CGI falls far short of communicating human expression and emotion and leaves me cold.There is a lot of discussion of the historical "accuracy" of this movie. I did a little research, and it seems that there are major gaps in the major historical document (literally, much is missing or has crumbled away), and how it should be interpreted. Given this, it seems peculiar to pan the latest rendition of a reality that causes great controversy, even among academics. I do agree that Beowulf is portrayed in a very unflattering and unfavorable light by the movie.In the obvious comparison CGI movie, the 300, the producers emphasized the myth. In Beowulf, they denigrated it. Neither, by itself, is reason to reject the movie itself. But 300 sold itself as a CGI production, and exceeded expectations. Beowulf sold itself as an exceptional human drama and fell flat on its face, saved but hardly exalted by its action scenes.

To all who have seen the movie and read the book, then I am sorry. To those who didn't read the book: The writers of the film did not follow the story line at all. Beowulf was supposed to pull of Grendel's arm, not shut it in a door. Grendel's mother was supposed to have lived in a lake of fire and be an ugly hag. Beowulf was also supposed to kill her, not make a dragon child with her. Grendel's mother was only supposed to kill one man when she comes to Herot, not all of Beowulf's men. And Hrothgar never gave Beowulf his kingdom. Beowulf had his own. Beowulf, after a long, unsuccessful battle with the dragon, was supposed to have died, not having killed the dragon and Wiglaf ended up defeating it. I cannot give this movie high ratings because of its twisting of the original story, which disappointed almost everyone in that theater.

Though the plot focuses on action, there is great tenderness for the Viking tradition (even if some say this is Anglo-Saxon), and it is not marred by needless updating. This alone makes a film worthy, especially these days. The lustiness and heroism of these great warriors is not muted by apologies, and one may enjoy this film as a standalone historical (or perhaps mythological) epic. In this vein, and for this genre, the film is meaty. Could it have done more? I think not, given that Lord of the Rings used a trilogy to squeeze out characterization and subplots. Beowulf on the other hand traverses at least two different stories in the two hours afforded.The characters are marvelous, if somewhat familiar. A perfect respite from the wise-cracking Thor of Marvel films. Ray Winstone is the epitome of Beowulf, Anthony Hopkins does a wonderful job as King Hrothgar, Brendan Gleeson is the great sidekick, and Angelina Jolie is ravishing as Grendel's mother. Like subplots, sub-characters, such as John Malkovich's Unferth, don't get enough time, which is good, because it means you wanted more. Even Grendel (Crispin Glover) is somewhat brief. Everything seems realistic and characters act like real people, not caricatures, which seems to be the norm lately. The dialogue matches expectations, even if there is more we'd like to know.The high point of the film is the extravagent NINE-MINUTE battle between Beowulf and the dragon, which in 3-D is dizzying. This is also an emotional battle, so there is extra energy to it. In CGI, there is so much more that can be done, and I like the balance director Robert Zemeckis struck between keeping it real and milking the fantasy with animation. The music is rousing and fitting. I enjoyed the overture and the theme song, but I am sucker for Enya and Celtic in general, as well as Scandinavian traditional.Like Alien and Independence Day, this is a film I could watch over and over. It over-delivers on its promises.

I was excited that now, with CGI, a great epic tale like Beowulf might be successfully made into a movie. I will keep waiting for a responsible screenwriter and director to try this again. First of all, I thought there would be more live action/acting. Since this had such a lovely cast list, I assumed they would really act. The stilted phrasing and wall to wall sexual innuendos made this one of the worst scripts I have encountered and brought to the screen. Beowulf, the great epic is full of magnificent epic poem, richly enhanced with kennings and alliteration that bring power and dignity to all of the characters. There was no dignity here. Instead, Beowulf was enveloped in shame (and given this script it was, unintentionally, the only thing they got right.) Please people,READ THE BOOK! The only thing this movie had in common with Beowulf were the names of the characters. Say no to bastard children, naked mommies of monsters, and lips that do not match up with the dialog. The only thing I got out of this was true/false test material for my British Literature students who think they can get away with watching the movie instead of reading our text.

When going into the theatre to see this I in two minds - it was my first 3D movie and I had heard good things, however I wasn't particularly taken by the concept or the trailers. I was unsure what to expect, however I ended up leaving the cinema extremely satisfied with the film, and tellingly, unable to stop discussing it long after the ride home.Visually it is an absolute treat, Zemeckis uses 3D superbly, some of the camera angles and sequences are as great an art as the photo-realistic animation. Occasionally the odd shot appears where the impression is that it was set up solely to emphasise the 3D (e.g. starting at the end of a branch and panning out) and whilst this doesn't add to the film it is actually a pleasant reminder of the novelty of 3D.There are only two areas that let Beowulf down aesthetically: the eyes and the mouth. The eyes were static throughout and it is the little details that make the difference when trying to make something as uber-realistic as this, such as the fact that the pupils didn't react to light. As for the lips - they're just not quite there yet - sometimes the speech didn't seem to be quite right.The characters are expertly introduced and developed, most notably Anthony Hopkins character, Hrothgar and the tension between his wife. Grendell and his mother are wonderfully creepy and seductive, and bizarrely enough almost encourage sympathy.For me the most disappointing part of the film was actually Ray Winstone as the titular character - he was fantastic when talking in a low growl, however the film really suffers when he shouts in full cockney accent. "I will kill your monstah!". I half expected Grendell's head to be smashed between a car and it's door. John Malkovitch is a saving grace with his none-more-sinister voice and interesting faith sub-plot.The rating for this film has been hotly discussed and in my opinion I do not think it is suitable for children under the age of 12. Grendell would have truly terrified me as a child. The violence, as well as bawdiness, does not make it a family film for young children although having said that the lewd references do provide good humour and balances out the movie.So, overall, this was worthy of an 8. Breathtaking animation, incredible action (especially the finale featuring an excellent dragon) and a generally brilliant cast. Beowulf throws down the gauntlet to film-makers to show what can be done with 3D and is an indication of the potential. It's not all the way there yet, but it's a damn good start.

Beowulf is not the old school poem. It's a story retold like mythical tales that have different revisions. A wolf becomes a bear, a bear becomes a troll, a troll becomes a dragon, etc. It's like another take on an old story, and told from the lips of a different story teller; this is all completely fine. The story is about Beowulf's quest to kill the creature Grendel and his story after that event.It doesn't sound particularly interesting but when you add in the fact that Beowulf can kill monsters with nothing but his pinky and thumb it starts sounding a lot better. If you are a big fan of medieval swords and shields tales you're going to love Beowulf. If you are big fan of blood, violence, and sexual themes, you're going to love Beowulf. The special effects and sound of Beowulf are top notch and the best technology has to offer these days.Every breaking bone, every ripple in every face, and every flexing muscle look as good as CGI probably ever will at this time. Sound effects, from the clang of swords, arrows firing, water, wind, the ocean, every thing sounds great and is a treat to hear. I saw the Unrated version so I can't speak for the PG-13 one but Beowulf is a very sexually charged movie, I will tell you that. It is not for children and when I say children I mean any one under 16 years of age.This movie should have been R rated from what I've seen. I can't imagine they took much out of the movie because the director's cut is only a fraction longer than the theatrical version. Now with the negative parts of this movie. The movie can be very paced to the point of silence. Some parts feel long and drawn out, I never got this feeling but I can see how some may not like this. I myself was too focused on soaking up all the lovely high-techery CGI.The point is don't go into this movie expecting THE Beowulf and you'll be all right. If you think that the retelling of a story should be 100% accurate with the poem it's based on, don't even rent this. You will not be happy. If you are looking for a great epic, and an all around entertaining film, watch this. It suffers from crappy ending syndrome but is well worth the price of admission, that is if you watch it for what it is; Beowulf the film, not the poem.

Beowulf is among the greatest and most well-known epic tales of Norse Mythology, but it only took me five minutes into the movie to realize that this film was not even close to as something grand. Why? To my surprise and disappointment, this movie was animated. Sure, animation isn't a big deal for a film along the lines of Shrek or Ratatouille, but not for a story like Beowulf. Beowulf is a very serious tale that covers many topics such as vengeance and forgiveness, cruelty and mercy, curses and revelations. I admit, this movie has some of those aspects, but it rather focuses on a corny, stylish animation work.The action and animation itself reminded me of a teen-rated video game rather than a masterwork. However, there were a couple of scenes in the movie of which some of the up closes of the actor's face in certain scenes look real rather than animated, particularly in the scene of where Beowulf encounters Grendel's mother. I don't know if this was digitized or not, but either way, I felt like I was brought back to a normal film in these scenes versus a silly cartoon.As with the story, rather than beginning with King Hrothgar murdering Grendel's father, it opens with the King having a party of drunkenness and very inappropriate nudity, particularly for an animation film. Then the party is suddenly raided by the giant Grendel. After this raid, which is quite bloody (especially for an animated film) and long ends Beowulf is finally introduced.Now, the movie does not explain why Grendel keeps attacking Hrothgar. In the myth, it was because he was responsible for Grendel's father's death. There is no sign or even an implication of this. As for Grendel, well all I can say is he looks like a giant mummy from The Mummy Returns and loves to yell at the top of his lungs. I felt no pain for him, rather an urge to say, "Shut your gull!" I don't want to even bother in trying to explain the rest of the story. It is mainly a combination of Beowulf's two great tales smashed together in under a two hour film.Since the story wasn't really developed well, the actors did not have much breathing room to really act. The monsters were evil and the good guys were heroes. Ray Winstone as Beowulf is pretty much like Gerard Butler was as King Leonardis from 300. He has a muscle-bound figure, loves to kill things, occasionally tries to be civil in politics, loves to walk around butt naked and shout drunkenly, "I am Beowulf!" I can't help but think of, "This is SPARTA!" Anthony Hopkins, as great an actor as he is, is an old, senile, drunken fool who can't stride from one chair to the next. Angelina Jolie, well, she's Angelina Jolie. She has a great body and speaks smoothly with her accent from Alexander. There's nothing worthwhile in this film, just a wasted epic that relies too much on the CGI department and has vivid images of sex and violence. I'm even more surprised that the great director Robert Zemechis of Back to the Future and Forrest Gump would direct this garbage.-1/10 I wish I can get my money back.

Roger Ebert did a great job at distracting readers from actually telling audiences anything useful in what he calls a review. Surely he jests, when he implies that the filmmakers meant this film to be funny. The review from him should be retitled "distracting comments," just as Beowulf should be retitled, as anything else, and have it's rating pushed up to R. This film isn't worth the download space, or the box office dollar you'll have to put out to be annoyed, insulted, and confused. Keep your family away and your friends. This wheelbarrow of crap that the studio rolled out is shameful. It should be listed as exploitation animation. How dare they ask for academy recognition for an Oscar. Ugh....

In the original epic poem, why does Beowulf come back from defeating Grendel's mother carrying Grendel's head? It's an interesting question that has fired literary critics imaginations for a while, and when Robert Zemeckis set out to make his big screen adaptation of the poem, he went beyond merely adapting the text itself. Instead, he took those questions that critics had considered and ran with them dramatically.So, what we end up having isn't so much an adaptation of Beowulf, but an adaptation of a master's thesis on Beowulf.The movie received mixed to positive reviews when it came out. A lot of the negativity seemed connected to the movie's visual style. Expanding what he had done on The Polar Express, Zemeckis used motion capture and computer animation to get realistic-ish looking characters. The problem is that the characters exact right in the middle of the Uncanny Valley. They are too real to treat as cartoons, but not real enough to convince the mind that they are real, so there's a natural barrier that's created because the brain knows it's not real despite a somewhat realistic looking appearance. I was more okay with the look of the film upon its initial release, but less so now.I understand, though, why Zemeckis was enamored with the technique. The freedom as a filmmaker to build the environments he wanted and place the camera wherever he wanted must have been quite enticing. The problem was the effort at getting photo-realistic effects, which end up falling short. A more cartoonish look might have been less jarring for the audience.Moving on, though, the movie's approach to the material, as implied, is really smart. It's not just a monster movie, but an exploration of bravery, heroism, and the costs of power. It takes a different approach than the original poem, but that's fine by me. The seduction of power, and the literal seduction of Grendel's mother, is an interesting approach to take, and I think it works really well. Beowulf must sell his soul to achieve power, but when the bill comes due he doesn't lay down like Hrothgar did. He fights. He reclaims his honor and sense of bravery by having a spectacle infused fight with a dragon. It's a sop to modern movie convention, but it's still fun on its own while refusing to undermine the basic point of the story.Performances, which you mainly need to judge by voices since the faces do have a plastic-like feel that they movie can't escape, are very good. I can see why Zemeckis wanted to cast Ray Winstone as Beowulf because he carries a gravelly voice that matches the vision of the character perfectly, but Winstone is, at the same time, not a body builder with 8 pack abs. Brendan Gleeson is wonderful as Wiglaf, the sad advisor, Anthony Hopkins is wise, sad, and guilt-ridden as Hrothgar, and Angelina Jolie is pure seduction as Grendel's mother. Special nod to Crispin Glover as Grendel, speaking Old English and evoking quite a bit of emotion as a monstrous creature with inside out ears.

I have read Beowulf a couple of times. It's great northern European mythology, and mandatory reading when you are young in my opinion (Along with Norse, Greek and Roman Mythology as well). And though the movie wants to re-write some of the epic, you will need to separate the Hollywood version from the beautiful measure of the original works. Being a work of CGI, you will also have to allow for the flaws of pure CGI work. Very stylized and beautifully colored, it is an epic adventure that elevated Zemeckis' previous work "The Polar Express" to a new level. Polar was beautifully modeled after Chris Van Allsburg illustrations for his book, but Zemeckis' adaptation to the story went a little over the top when it became a musical. Even though most of Beowulf's story line is answered here, it did make me pause and wonder:Why didn't Robert Zemeckis just direct this thing in real life instead of virtual?With the capabilities of dropping in CGI into real life action, this telling of the story could have had so much more of an impact if the expressions were more poignant. Look what he did with "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?"? Zemeckis is fully capable of it. Also, to add to this, when you have CGI characters like Jacksons Gollum and King Kong to compare notes with, the modeling here just isn't up to snuff. I felt the entire movie came off like a gigantic "cut-scene" to a video game than a full featured animated project. I can only give this a little better than a good, hence the exclamation. I do this sadly. You really should see this in a theater, bigger than life. The dragon is excellent, the ugly v/s the beautiful is wild, the sequencing is uneven, though at the end it takes you on a great ride. Oh, and for you people that want to go see Angela Jolie nekkid? IT'S CGI!!! I've seen harder stuff on Fox networks! Seeing my wife and I saw this as a matinée, the crowd was on the sparse side and there was literally no kids present. I couldn't get a solid feeling from the audience though most people as they left seemed genuinely happy with their experience. I'm sure it was PG13'd because of the sequences with Angela, otherwise it would be a solid PG. I wouldn't suggest this for a kid under 8.

Take a thousand year old heroic subject matter, spice it up with a dose of „modern" morals such as „men's only weakness is women" , add a few females according to type – e.g. saints and whores – and shoot this script as a CGI-mix of „Shrek", „300" and popular computer-games: The result is Robert Zemecki's version of „Beowulf". Works alright, the flick, as long as you don't take it seriously. However, whenever the „Shrek"-Elements dominate the scene, the film runs into problems. Queen Wealtheow for instance fatally resembles the green Oger's mom. Besides, almost all Characters have a squint that would make Christopher Lambert at his best look good. Wet hair is still a problem of computer-graphics, too. Otherwise, the film is technically well made and gives you an idea how far Ralph Bakshi might have gone with his concept of graphically alienated live-action.Still, over long stretches the motion-capture-technique is too reminiscent of computer-games to be convincing, and thus one is left with the question which audience this film is aimed at. Gaming kiddies can't watch it because all the ripping and tearing is far too bloody; adult Lord-of-the-Rings-fans will miss the depth of the original poem, despite some nice touches in the script – such as King Hrothgar talking of „Scops" or giving out rings to his thanes in the initial sequence, or Grendel and his mother seeming to talk Anglo-Saxonish. The linguistic climax of the movie is elsewhere, anyway: King Hrothgar, embodied (well, sort of) by Anthony Hopkins, telling his followers that Beowulf „killed the monster and laid his mother... in her grave". How do you translate that for synchronized versions? This sequence gets to the heart of the difference of plot between the script and the heroic poem, i.e. the introduction of the eternal female temptation as motif for the hero's curse. Not a bad idea, really, especially in view of the traditional sword-penis-symbolism that is being exploited thoroughly in this film. Unfortunately, the way they put the idea on screen is cheesy to say the least. Thus Angelina Jolie's computerized curves seem designed to lure the average movie-goer, male, mid-twenties, meager intellect (is that according to statistics?). The hero Beowulf (one can't speak of actors or characters in this film) is modeled on the Gladiator but lacks his character; the monster is a crossbreed of Ent and skinned Gollum; the jokes are laconic (example: "How is your father? – Dead."). Amusing – and once in a while appealing in a darkly beautiful manner, especially when a whiff of northern Epic or landscape transcends the CGI. In these moments one gets an inkling of what might have been done with this script. Even the final fight with the dragon is impressive. But why does the dragon have a heart, small as a cow's? Why does the coast-guard sit in front of his fire in the pouring rain? And why does the final, unbearably long shot have to be so unbearably kitsch? Shame, really. You can either have grim realism, or you can have exaggerated, bad-taste fantasy. Try to amalgamate both, and the thing falls apart.

It takes a while for your eyes to get used to the uncanny animation, but once you overcome the ordeal, Beowulf turns into an outrageously entertaining ride. The performances are solid, the visuals are unique, the score is uplifting, and it has great action sequences. It's really good fun for adults of all ages.

*The following is a review of the digital 3D version showing at select theaters: Robert Zemeckis has always been a trailblazer with film technology. He was among the first to utilize CGI in "Death Becomes Her" and with his adaptation of the oldest surviving epic poem in the English language, he perfects the life-like digital computer animation he first experimented with in "The Polar Express". Like his canon of films over the years, "Beowulf" is an eye-popping mixed bag of cinematic tricks.The animation has come to a point where it is eerily life-like. In "Beowulf" every blade of grass, every tree branch, and every strand of hair has been painstakingly detailed. And while it is hard to tell the difference between the digital Angelina Jolie and the real Angelina Jolie, there's still something about the human face, the nuances of the muscular features, the emotion running beneath, that this technology will never capture. It still depicts hollow, cold clones of real human beings that could never fully replace 3D flesh and blood.What makes "Beowulf" so entertaining is the digital 3D technology. It creates some breathtaking vistas where you feel as if the landscapes are moving through you. In some of the more horrific scenes with Grendel, you'll find yourself jumping out of your skin. Zemeckis is like a magician with this technology. He's able to bleed something out of nothing by knowing how to get the reactions he wants from his audience with just the right sound effect, camera angle, and quick-cut to complete his trick. It's often ugly, but quite breathtaking.Zemeckis loses some ground when he relies too much on juvenile machismo grandstanding to further character development. Sure, I love a good death by chandelier scene or a man getting ripped in half by a monster bit as much as the next guy, but all the bawdy humor wears thin. Even lamer was the scene where Beowulf fights Grendel in the buff, which contained almost as many laugh inducing sight gags as the scene where Bart skateboarded nude through Springfield in this summer's "The Simpsons Movie." The mixed bag of tricks and sometimes slow build-up, however, eventually lead to a totally thrilling finale where Beowulf does battle with the dragon his misdeeds begot. In 3D, it's nerve-shattering fun. As an action adventure film, it makes the mark.Ultimately you realize why this story has survived over 1200 years. "Beowulf" makes legendary the idea of a hero's fallibility and the global consequences of the sins of the father. These are universal themes that have been sung again and again in everything from Shakespeare to this year's best film, "Before the Devil Knows You're Dead." While the technology used to make this film may seem dated in a few years, the story will live on, and this just may be the definitive "Beowulf" for high school English teachers to use in their lame attempts to connect with their students. The savvier kids won't be fooled, but there's worse ways to pass the time in class.

It seems we have a new cinematic fad coming into fashion... the genre of mythological action. It began with '300' (a film I really enjoyed), and the first that stands to benefit from 300's success is Beowulf. Beowulf is the newest film from Robert Zemeckis. Zemeckis implements many of the same visual themes of his last project, the heart warming Polar Express, with varied success.Beowulf tells the story of the kingdom of King Hrothgar (a delightfully campy Anthony Hopkins)which is currently being terrorized by a monster named Grendel (Crispin Glover). Help comes in the form of mighty Beowulf (Ray Winstone), who arrives with an army of 14 men and his right hand man, Wiglaf (Brendan Gleeson). It his his job to slay the monster. However, he must also deal with Grendel's mother (Angelina Jolie). Beowulf is opposed by Unferth (John Malkovich), and has also been paying close attention to the king's wife, Wealthow (Robin Wright Penn).Perhaps the most surprising element of the film is its sly, wink and a nod, sense of humor. This can be viewed two ways. The first view is one of enjoyment and laughter. However, it is hard to comply when we are asked to feel or identify with these characters after so many scenes presenting them as mere caricatures.As expected, Beowulf is visually stunning. I'd argue it is the one category where this film bests 'Polar Express'. The 3-D photography is shockingly good. It is a film I wouldn't want to imagine in the traditional two dimension format. I strongly advise anyone who is going to see this to view the film in 3-D. Without it, the film would be borderline un enjoyable. The highlight is by far the final battle scene,which just begs you to forget the film's past misdeeds. Close, but no dice.

In Denmark, A.D. 507, the realm of King Hrothgar (Anthony Hopkins) is threatened by the tormented demon Grendel (Crispin Glover) that attacks the locals in their celebrations. The Danish king offers a reward for the death of the creature, attracting to Herot the brave Geet warrior Beowulf (Ray Winstone) that seeks for glory. After a fierce battle, Beowulf defeats the demon and after receiving an old relic as reward, he finds his men slaughtered in the party saloon of the castle. King Hrothgar advises that the Grendel's mother (Angelina Jolie) was the responsible for the bloodshed and Beowulf chases her in the lake where she lives. The creature takes the form of a seductive woman and seduces Beowulf with a promise of becoming an invincible and wealthy king if he makes love to her and gives his golden relic to her. Years later, King Beowulf feels the aftermath of his sin."Beowulf" is a dark tale in an age in the beginning of the Christianity and a unique experience with the entire movie made of computer-generated image (CGI). There is no live action, but the stylization of the characters and images is amazing. In accordance with the director Robert Zemeckis, this resource allowed to make this movie with lower costs, using unusual movements of camera. There are silly moments, like for example Beowulf fighting completely naked against Grendel, or the ambiguous character of Unferth, but in the end this movie is entertaining. I only imagine how frustrating might be for actors and actresses performing in blue screen without interaction or set. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "A Lenda de Beowulf" ("The Legend of Beowulf")

This film has impressive special effects and would be okay as an adventure fantasy but it should not be marketed as the epic poem.Also it has been given the wrong rating and should be an R. Why all the changes? Grendel's mother was not a gold painted,nude,Barbie doll in stiletto heels.Grendel was not Hrothgar's son. Beowulf killed the witch he did not have sex with her.The dragon was not Beowulf's son and had no connection with the witch.Beowulf was not made Hrothgar's heir,nor did he marry his widow and become king of the Danes.In the poem Beowulf returned to Geatland after slaying Grendel. He remained the Geat king's best warrior,supporting him and the son who succeeded him. Only after the new king died did Beowulf become king of the Geats until his own death in later years.Also, why all the nudity in this film? This was Scandinavian northern Europe in the Dark Ages - folk would have Bean in furs and heavy woollens most of the time.The cartoon-like actors didn't help either with bland faces and expressionless eyes.A far better movie 'Beowulf and Grendel' was made in 2004,filmed on location in Iceland,with an excellent cast of real actors and no CGI. The Iceland born Canadian director,Sturla Gunnarson,tried to get back to what could have been the original story that evolved over the centuries into the legend.It was gritty,made on a shoestring and had only limited cinema release,but thankfully it is available on DVD and is well worth a look.There is also an excellent companion DVD documentary called 'Wrath of Gods'which tells the incredible story of the filming of the movie, and the struggle to complete it with financial problems and the absolute hell of shooting it at the start of the Icelandic winter.The new 'Beowulf' has also tried to ride on the coattails of '300', but again it suffers by not having real actors showing their courage and emotions.'300' scenes were like paintings come to life and the Spartans' impressive physiques and fighting skills were real,after hard training,with no computer enhancement.An interesting point is the actor who links these three films - charismatic Gerard Butler.He was fiery yet also sensitive as King Leonidas and the earlier Beowulf and made the roles his own.This 2007 film is a missed opportunity to bring the epic poem to life.

Beowulf (2007) is in my DVD collection and is also available on Netflix. The storyline is about Beowulf who arrives in a town plagued by a curse where a deity and her son ravage the land. When Beowulf fights the son and confronts the deity tough choices will be made that will determine his future and direction. This movie is directed by Robert Zemeckis (Forrest Gump) and contains the voices of Anthony Hopkins (Silence of the Lambs), Angelina Jolie (Tomb Raider), Ray Winstone (The Departed), Crispin Glover (Willard), Robin Wright (The Princess Bride) and John Malkovich (In the Line of Fire). The storyline for this is very good and contains some fantastic twists and turns. The animation is out of this world and looks very much like the actors used for the voices. The cast is very well selected and fit the characters and storyline to perfection. The action scenes are absolutely amazing, especially the depiction of the creatures and sorcery. The kill scenes and gore is also remarkable. The full circle of the storyline is excellent as is the absolute final scene. This is a bit underrated and is definitely a must see that I would score a 8.5/10.

Normally I loathe CGI, but here, it's necessary. And it works - well.Here's my breakdown:STORY:
As I understand it, the story was originally just a poem, but it was filled out nicely.Warrior stories are endless, but this has a plot twist I've not seen or read before, and it's pivotal for the story.I could have done without Jolie and the copious amount of lust, but men like their stories of war and women. Oy ...ACTING:
This includes the "acting" of Anthony Hopkins, a brilliant British actor who I've followed since his earlier years.Otherwise I thought the characters were decent, though their development is not the emphasis.ENTERTAINMENT:
Moderate to high value, but as always, it depends on your tastesTEMPO:
Quite good, though it must have crazed blood and carnage to satiate the lusts of menCINEMATOGRAPHY:
For a CGI film I was very impressed. What's intriguing is how difficult it is to "draw" the human mouth while speaking.There are so many muscles in the face, jaw, and tongue so those subtleties are lost, but an excellent attempt.MUSIC / SOUND:
A beautiful song "Hero comes home" but otherwise far too much "epic" musicDIRECTING / WRITING:
Director: Zemeckis has a very impressive resume, and this reinforces his ability to handle a wide variety of genre.I've seen many of his films, and nearly all have left strong impressions.Writers: While I thought this story was reasonably well done, the combined works of the two screenplay writers
is flat or filled with TV waste.Is it a good film? YesShould you watch this once? YesRating: 7.5.

For over 1000 years Beowulf the epic has described Beowulf as a mighty hero who killed Grendel AND Grendel's mother. He became a mighty King in his own right after protecting the existing incumbent and his son. At the end of a life of courage and honesty he sets out to fight one last battle, KNOWING he may be going to his death but willing to protect his people for one last time. During the final battle with the Fire spewing serpent, Beowulf was losing, but one of his companions remembered his duty and where others deserted Beowulf, Wiglaf returned to stand by his dying lord, shielding him and dealing a stroke that abated the Serpent's fire, enabling Beowulf to deal the death stroke to the serpent with his battle knife. Finally after the death of the serpent, and the subsequent death of his dear lord from his wounds, Wiglaf berates the cowards who deserted their lord and made them feel their shame.A short synopsis of the Epic of Beowulf.What Beowulf is presented in this movie?A pervert who sleeps with a Demon, holds his lands at her behest, abhors his life and spawns a mutant.Wrong wrong wrong wrong wrong, so wrong it is not remotely funny.The main thing that bothers me is that those who see the film will think it is in any way accurate (even in the fight against Grendel Epic Beowulf stated he scorns to carry sword or shield he does mention his shirt of mail!) and a tale of unblemished heroism that has lasted fire and reformation over 10 centuries gets buried by a below average CGI flick with a bigger advertising budget.

I didn't expect a lot from 'Beowulf', for lots of reasons, most of which were to do with the casting: incorrigibly cockney Ray Winstone as a warrior from what's now southern Sweden; wacky John Malkovich as a cynical counselor; loony Crispin Glover as a flesh-rending monster, and weirdest of all, Angelina Jolie as the monster's mother...thaet waes wundorlic castyng, as the poet might have put it. Then there was the way they did the whole thing in CGI, running the risk of making it all look a bit rubbery. Finally, Robert Zemeckis is the director and my great respect for him plummeted through the floor and into the crawlspace after he presided over the insufferable 'Forrest Gump'.Nevertheless, this is a lot better than I thought it would be. I missed the 3D incarnation as we were watching the DVD rather than the cinema release, but after a while you stop looking at the CGI and start enjoying it. This is a 'Beowulf' where the story, although different from the poem, is actually very far from shabby.Without giving too much away, the main difference from the poem is that in the poem, there is no connection between the monster Grendel and his mother on one hand, and the dragon in the latter half of the poem on the other hand. In the film, a connection exists. Neil Gaiman and Roger Avary do a professional job of tying it all together in a satisfying Hollywood way, without betraying the basic darkness and sadness of the story; it's not like Beowulf rides off into the sunset with Wiglaf at the end. Crispin Glover is genuinely scary as the tormented and raw-boned Grendel, whose main problem is that he just can't stand the sound of people having fun, although since most of this fun consists of hairy men singing lewd songs you can see his point. Angelina Jolie's animated self spends all her on screen time walking around without any clothes on, something that apparently gave Jolie a blush when she saw a cut of the movie. (One of the more eerie things about this film is that the cartoon Angelina Jolie looks marginally more realistic than the actress herself.)Despite an accent that's more Stockwell than Geatland, Ray Winstone does a fine, sombre job as the hero, although my wife thought that the animated Winstone looked more like Sean Bean. Brendan Gleeson does a splendid job in the niche he's carved for himself of Hairy Sidekick. The acting honours, or at least the animation honours, go to Robin Wright Penn (or whoever worked on her character) as the pale and melancholy queen; she has moments of subtle hesitation and sadness that struck me as a triumph of CGI acting. There is much excellent smiting, some of it unfortunately toned down a little in order to keep a PG-13 rating - so we don't actually get to see Grendel biting men's heads off, just people's reactions to him doing so. Most importantly, the story is not a travesty of the original. It's thoughtful and interesting, as you'd expect from a writer of Gaiman's quality (if not from the author of 'Killing Zoe') and contains some striking meditations on the power of legend and reputation. Plus, there's a really huge kick-ass dragon. 'Beowulf' is a strange and unexpected treat.

I mean I like some of the fights and stuff and it's not really that bad but it really had some dumb stuff might get the weird King and not even taking a hint that his wife is a shame of him and how she never really shed a tear when hrothgar died and I like Beowulf because he's somewhat strong and stuff and he has a huge problem with lying like what happened with the mermaid in the whole thing with Grendel mother although yeah there were some pretty good battle scenes especially the final battle with the dragon and it proves that his friend was loyal to the end. But I also some scenes which are kind of weird but I don't want to even say it. But one thing is really weird which they should have had made a sequel but I don't know about what happened at the end with Beowulf friend and Grendel's mother.Well anyways I give this movie 7.

Short answer: If you love the old Anglo-Saxon poem Beowulf, do not see this movie. You will be nauseated.Longer answer: In the Dungeons and Dragons community, there is an old joke that the characters "kill things and take their stuff." Well, Neil Gaiman and Roger Avary managed to kill Beowulf and take his stuff. Then they proceeded to kill Hrothgar, the helm of the Shieldings and take his stuff. Then they killed Grendel and took its stuff. Then, they killed Wealtheow and took her stuff. And so on, and so forth. These two imbeciles with Underwoods (an orangutan could have come up with a more sensitive treatment of one of the seminal pieces of English literature!) completely changed the tone of the poem from a serious heroic epic to just another post-modern round of "no more heroes" buffoonery.The literary atrocities of Messers Gaiman and Avary upon the source material are as follows: 1. The poem has been dechristianized: On the one hand, it does take out a glaring anachronism (the action of the poem takes place during the Migration Period of the AD 400s-500s, when they would still be following the traditions of the Aesir religion, but the poem was written down in a very Christianized context in England, and the anachronism does add a richness to the language) The only sop to the underpinnings of the source material come in a discussion between two urinating Danes over the relative merits of Christianity and Aesir-worship, and later when Unferth suggests praying to Christ as well as Odin, a suggestion that Hrothgar rejects out of hand (perhaps a reference to the opposite situation in the poem, where the Danes throw off Christianity for a time, hoping that the old gods will smite Grendel where the Christian ones had apparently failed).2. It is implied very heavily that Beowulf was a liar and braggart in his earlier exploits, including the race with Breca: As with many of the other changes, it seems to be part of a deliberate campaign by Gaiman and Avary to strip away the heroic nature of the source material, turning Beowulf into just another trendy 21st-century flawed anti-hero.3. The characters often speak with a much more modern speech pattern (see, for instance, Unferth's first confrontation with Beowulf, where he comes off as much more smarmy than in the poem) that is jarring to the ear and that often seems to lead, yet again, into Gaiman and Avary's unspoken goal of de-heroizing, de-mythologizing, and de-bunking the poem.4. Beowulf does not kill Grendel's Mother: In the poem, it's reported as fact that Beowulf kills her after a ferocious struggle. Nowhere in the poem does it suggest that she seduces him and he lies about killing her. Again, it's the old song of "everything you know is false -- there are no true heroes." 5. Beowulf fighting in the nude: Beowulf does forswear the use of arms in fighting Grendel, but nowhere does it say that he would fight the monster in the all-together, tackle-out (with only strategically-placed objects protecting his modesty). In fighting with Grendel's Mother, it is explicitly stated that he is wearing chain-mail armor and that that saves his life. I'm giving a pass to her appearance, as it's never stated exactly what either she or Grendel actually were supposed to look like.6. Hrothgar is almost explicitly stated to be Grendel's father: No, no, NO! Nowhere in the poem was any mention of Grendel's father made, least of all it being Hrothgar, whom Grendel's Mother would not have been able to have "known" anyway, as he was a consecrated king, and it is implied that Cain's kin could not go near signs of rightful royalty. (Cain, the first murderer, who is claimed to be the ancestor of Grendel's kind, not "Cain," the not-appearing-in-the-poem whipping boy of Unferth's, that is.) 7. Hrothgar and Wealtheow have no issue, because Wealtheow will not sleep with Hrothgar due to his sleeping with Grendel's Mother, and the subsequent romantic subtext between her and Beowulf: Wrong again. Leaving behind the fact that Wealtheow probably was not as nubile in the poem as in the movie and showed no romantic interest in Beowulf whatsoever, she and Hrothgar had two sons, and as mentioned before Hrothgar had not slept with Grendel's Mother.8. Hrothgar gives his kingdom over to Beowulf and then commits suicide by jumping off the tower of Heorot: At this point, I walked out of the theater and demanded my money back, as the movie had officially jumped the shark with no hopes of return.In short, the movie was little more than a parody, a lampoon on a great epic.

The first risk about this version of "Beowulf" is to see it as one of Zemeckis eccentricities. A technique used for a sort of childish game without limits. The second view discovers the purpose of the game - to propose the right essence of poem. The fluidity and dramatism of plot. The bitter flavor of confrontations. And the seed of the victory. Impressive, shocking in few scenes, it is a precise exploration of a world who becomes less familiar. Because, behind shadows and animation, violence and nudity, the message of "Beowulf" becomes more clear. And usefull. And, maybe, this is the most important thing in its case.

The movie's OK, I think; won't go into details. The thing I wondered most about is the research done about the Danish country...or lack of same. It seems that those who did the research may have visited Denmark's neighbours Norway or Sweden and decided that that's how all Scandinavian countries look like. However, Denmark - my home country - looks nothing like what is depicted in this movie. Never has. The geography of Denmark is that of a rather flat country. We have hills, yes, but not mountains, and certainly not cliffs. Beowulf lands his ship on a beach with large cliffs in the background. Not one single place in Denmark looks like this. The same thing goes for the place of the king's hall. No place like that in Denmark. Just an interesting thought from a Danish fellah...

Given the power of the cast and the budget, you perhaps hope for a movie which is stunningly entertaining and in some way expands your consciousness, if only for a brief 90 minutes or so. Unfortunately you get neither, just an action movie with a rather twisted and unhistorical plot. The acting does not shine through the CGI very well. Maybe it's because I am in my 50s and did not grow up with CGI, but I keep feeling like I am watching a cartoon, which is to say the least distracting.I can certainly understand that in such spectacles as the monster fight, CGI offers at least an approximation of realism. But in scenes where human interaction predominates, CGI falls far short of communicating human expression and emotion and leaves me cold.There is a lot of discussion of the historical "accuracy" of this movie. I did a little research, and it seems that there are major gaps in the major historical document (literally, much is missing or has crumbled away), and how it should be interpreted. Given this, it seems peculiar to pan the latest rendition of a reality that causes great controversy, even among academics. I do agree that Beowulf is portrayed in a very unflattering and unfavorable light by the movie.In the obvious comparison CGI movie, the 300, the producers emphasized the myth. In Beowulf, they denigrated it. Neither, by itself, is reason to reject the movie itself. But 300 sold itself as a CGI production, and exceeded expectations. Beowulf sold itself as an exceptional human drama and fell flat on its face, saved but hardly exalted by its action scenes.

.....and I'm not sure about the 6-10...perhaps it's for the 3-D, which is really quite a spectacular achievement...being able to essentially move your head around in an environment and look this way and that, choosing to focus on what you will.....But, the computer animation is nothing more than an all-inclusive production design, which is fine- all films have to have a unifying production design. But to paint over real actors, when they are already being used seems a terrible waste, when the technology still can't render the human form believable. They're coming closer, but the actor's main tool, his face and mouth, still have yet to be fully realized.Motion capture gets the broad strokes of body movement, giving the body a sense of mass on-screen, which is why this technique looks so much better than the digital avatar that stands in for Toby McGuire in the Spiderman films. Spidy has no sense of mass when it isn't McGuire. But all the actors in Beowulf do not have realistically expressive faces, and consequently the film falls apart. Given that the plot is thin gruel, not worthy of a two-hour plus film, Zemeckis would have been better off to use the techniques employed in "Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow" and let the real actors play around in a digital environment. The photorealism would be intact, and the actors would be allowed to bring all their chops to bear.To be sure, motion capture is fine when the actors are covered in digital make-up a la Gollum, and I'm sure Ray Winstone appreciates the fitness programme that he did not have to embark on to get himself ripped for this role, but that's it! So what's the point? Filmgoers have been willingly suspending their disbelief for the sake of buying the fantasy since the original King Kong, and Fritz Lang's Metropolis. Ray Harryhausen was delivering the goods way before digital technology came about.This film works only as a technological exercise. Someday they will be able to replicate an actor's facial features exactly, mimicking the skin and muscle contractions that make the human face such a magnificent tool for the performer. But until then, why not use the real thing? And none of this substitutes for telling a good story. Beowulf is a sad commentary on American films that make technique king over substance. That's why Andy Warhol isn't Rembrandt.

To all who have seen the movie and read the book, then I am sorry. To those who didn't read the book: The writers of the film did not follow the story line at all. Beowulf was supposed to pull of Grendel's arm, not shut it in a door. Grendel's mother was supposed to have lived in a lake of fire and be an ugly hag. Beowulf was also supposed to kill her, not make a dragon child with her. Grendel's mother was only supposed to kill one man when she comes to Herot, not all of Beowulf's men. And Hrothgar never gave Beowulf his kingdom. Beowulf had his own. Beowulf, after a long, unsuccessful battle with the dragon, was supposed to have died, not having killed the dragon and Wiglaf ended up defeating it. I cannot give this movie high ratings because of its twisting of the original story, which disappointed almost everyone in that theater.

Though the plot focuses on action, there is great tenderness for the Viking tradition (even if some say this is Anglo-Saxon), and it is not marred by needless updating. This alone makes a film worthy, especially these days. The lustiness and heroism of these great warriors is not muted by apologies, and one may enjoy this film as a standalone historical (or perhaps mythological) epic. In this vein, and for this genre, the film is meaty. Could it have done more? I think not, given that Lord of the Rings used a trilogy to squeeze out characterization and subplots. Beowulf on the other hand traverses at least two different stories in the two hours afforded.The characters are marvelous, if somewhat familiar. A perfect respite from the wise-cracking Thor of Marvel films. Ray Winstone is the epitome of Beowulf, Anthony Hopkins does a wonderful job as King Hrothgar, Brendan Gleeson is the great sidekick, and Angelina Jolie is ravishing as Grendel's mother. Like subplots, sub-characters, such as John Malkovich's Unferth, don't get enough time, which is good, because it means you wanted more. Even Grendel (Crispin Glover) is somewhat brief. Everything seems realistic and characters act like real people, not caricatures, which seems to be the norm lately. The dialogue matches expectations, even if there is more we'd like to know.The high point of the film is the extravagent NINE-MINUTE battle between Beowulf and the dragon, which in 3-D is dizzying. This is also an emotional battle, so there is extra energy to it. In CGI, there is so much more that can be done, and I like the balance director Robert Zemeckis struck between keeping it real and milking the fantasy with animation. The music is rousing and fitting. I enjoyed the overture and the theme song, but I am sucker for Enya and Celtic in general, as well as Scandinavian traditional.Like Alien and Independence Day, this is a film I could watch over and over. It over-delivers on its promises.

I was excited that now, with CGI, a great epic tale like Beowulf might be successfully made into a movie. I will keep waiting for a responsible screenwriter and director to try this again. First of all, I thought there would be more live action/acting. Since this had such a lovely cast list, I assumed they would really act. The stilted phrasing and wall to wall sexual innuendos made this one of the worst scripts I have encountered and brought to the screen. Beowulf, the great epic is full of magnificent epic poem, richly enhanced with kennings and alliteration that bring power and dignity to all of the characters. There was no dignity here. Instead, Beowulf was enveloped in shame (and given this script it was, unintentionally, the only thing they got right.) Please people,READ THE BOOK! The only thing this movie had in common with Beowulf were the names of the characters. Say no to bastard children, naked mommies of monsters, and lips that do not match up with the dialog. The only thing I got out of this was true/false test material for my British Literature students who think they can get away with watching the movie instead of reading our text.

When going into the theatre to see this I in two minds - it was my first 3D movie and I had heard good things, however I wasn't particularly taken by the concept or the trailers. I was unsure what to expect, however I ended up leaving the cinema extremely satisfied with the film, and tellingly, unable to stop discussing it long after the ride home.Visually it is an absolute treat, Zemeckis uses 3D superbly, some of the camera angles and sequences are as great an art as the photo-realistic animation. Occasionally the odd shot appears where the impression is that it was set up solely to emphasise the 3D (e.g. starting at the end of a branch and panning out) and whilst this doesn't add to the film it is actually a pleasant reminder of the novelty of 3D.There are only two areas that let Beowulf down aesthetically: the eyes and the mouth. The eyes were static throughout and it is the little details that make the difference when trying to make something as uber-realistic as this, such as the fact that the pupils didn't react to light. As for the lips - they're just not quite there yet - sometimes the speech didn't seem to be quite right.The characters are expertly introduced and developed, most notably Anthony Hopkins character, Hrothgar and the tension between his wife. Grendell and his mother are wonderfully creepy and seductive, and bizarrely enough almost encourage sympathy.For me the most disappointing part of the film was actually Ray Winstone as the titular character - he was fantastic when talking in a low growl, however the film really suffers when he shouts in full cockney accent. "I will kill your monstah!". I half expected Grendell's head to be smashed between a car and it's door. John Malkovitch is a saving grace with his none-more-sinister voice and interesting faith sub-plot.The rating for this film has been hotly discussed and in my opinion I do not think it is suitable for children under the age of 12. Grendell would have truly terrified me as a child. The violence, as well as bawdiness, does not make it a family film for young children although having said that the lewd references do provide good humour and balances out the movie.So, overall, this was worthy of an 8. Breathtaking animation, incredible action (especially the finale featuring an excellent dragon) and a generally brilliant cast. Beowulf throws down the gauntlet to film-makers to show what can be done with 3D and is an indication of the potential. It's not all the way there yet, but it's a damn good start.

Beowulf is not the old school poem. It's a story retold like mythical tales that have different revisions. A wolf becomes a bear, a bear becomes a troll, a troll becomes a dragon, etc. It's like another take on an old story, and told from the lips of a different story teller; this is all completely fine. The story is about Beowulf's quest to kill the creature Grendel and his story after that event.It doesn't sound particularly interesting but when you add in the fact that Beowulf can kill monsters with nothing but his pinky and thumb it starts sounding a lot better. If you are a big fan of medieval swords and shields tales you're going to love Beowulf. If you are big fan of blood, violence, and sexual themes, you're going to love Beowulf. The special effects and sound of Beowulf are top notch and the best technology has to offer these days.Every breaking bone, every ripple in every face, and every flexing muscle look as good as CGI probably ever will at this time. Sound effects, from the clang of swords, arrows firing, water, wind, the ocean, every thing sounds great and is a treat to hear. I saw the Unrated version so I can't speak for the PG-13 one but Beowulf is a very sexually charged movie, I will tell you that. It is not for children and when I say children I mean any one under 16 years of age.This movie should have been R rated from what I've seen. I can't imagine they took much out of the movie because the director's cut is only a fraction longer than the theatrical version. Now with the negative parts of this movie. The movie can be very paced to the point of silence. Some parts feel long and drawn out, I never got this feeling but I can see how some may not like this. I myself was too focused on soaking up all the lovely high-techery CGI.The point is don't go into this movie expecting THE Beowulf and you'll be all right. If you think that the retelling of a story should be 100% accurate with the poem it's based on, don't even rent this. You will not be happy. If you are looking for a great epic, and an all around entertaining film, watch this. It suffers from crappy ending syndrome but is well worth the price of admission, that is if you watch it for what it is; Beowulf the film, not the poem.

Beowulf is among the greatest and most well-known epic tales of Norse Mythology, but it only took me five minutes into the movie to realize that this film was not even close to as something grand. Why? To my surprise and disappointment, this movie was animated. Sure, animation isn't a big deal for a film along the lines of Shrek or Ratatouille, but not for a story like Beowulf. Beowulf is a very serious tale that covers many topics such as vengeance and forgiveness, cruelty and mercy, curses and revelations. I admit, this movie has some of those aspects, but it rather focuses on a corny, stylish animation work.The action and animation itself reminded me of a teen-rated video game rather than a masterwork. However, there were a couple of scenes in the movie of which some of the up closes of the actor's face in certain scenes look real rather than animated, particularly in the scene of where Beowulf encounters Grendel's mother. I don't know if this was digitized or not, but either way, I felt like I was brought back to a normal film in these scenes versus a silly cartoon.As with the story, rather than beginning with King Hrothgar murdering Grendel's father, it opens with the King having a party of drunkenness and very inappropriate nudity, particularly for an animation film. Then the party is suddenly raided by the giant Grendel. After this raid, which is quite bloody (especially for an animated film) and long ends Beowulf is finally introduced.Now, the movie does not explain why Grendel keeps attacking Hrothgar. In the myth, it was because he was responsible for Grendel's father's death. There is no sign or even an implication of this. As for Grendel, well all I can say is he looks like a giant mummy from The Mummy Returns and loves to yell at the top of his lungs. I felt no pain for him, rather an urge to say, "Shut your gull!" I don't want to even bother in trying to explain the rest of the story. It is mainly a combination of Beowulf's two great tales smashed together in under a two hour film.Since the story wasn't really developed well, the actors did not have much breathing room to really act. The monsters were evil and the good guys were heroes. Ray Winstone as Beowulf is pretty much like Gerard Butler was as King Leonardis from 300. He has a muscle-bound figure, loves to kill things, occasionally tries to be civil in politics, loves to walk around butt naked and shout drunkenly, "I am Beowulf!" I can't help but think of, "This is SPARTA!" Anthony Hopkins, as great an actor as he is, is an old, senile, drunken fool who can't stride from one chair to the next. Angelina Jolie, well, she's Angelina Jolie. She has a great body and speaks smoothly with her accent from Alexander. There's nothing worthwhile in this film, just a wasted epic that relies too much on the CGI department and has vivid images of sex and violence. I'm even more surprised that the great director Robert Zemechis of Back to the Future and Forrest Gump would direct this garbage.-1/10 I wish I can get my money back.

Roger Ebert did a great job at distracting readers from actually telling audiences anything useful in what he calls a review. Surely he jests, when he implies that the filmmakers meant this film to be funny. The review from him should be retitled "distracting comments," just as Beowulf should be retitled, as anything else, and have it's rating pushed up to R. This film isn't worth the download space, or the box office dollar you'll have to put out to be annoyed, insulted, and confused. Keep your family away and your friends. This wheelbarrow of crap that the studio rolled out is shameful. It should be listed as exploitation animation. How dare they ask for academy recognition for an Oscar. Ugh....