This is definitely the grittiest of all the 3 Die Hard films. John Mclane is now a drunk, he's separated from his family, living in New York, and to make matters worse a terrorist calling himself "Simon" is out for revenge on Mclane. Mclane, and everyone else, has absolutely no idea why.The first 2 films are superior to this one since this has a lot of changes from the mood that made the others so great. First off, it's not set on Christmas. No biggie though. Secondly, there are too many complications and twists to the plot. You almost have to take notes. And thirdly, the biggest change is that it's now turned into a buddy movie to the style of Lethal Weapon, since Samuel L. Jackson as Zeus unwillingly teams up with John Mclane. They're complete opposites, they argue, and they become friends. That sort of stuff.Die Hard: With A Vengeance still stays true to it's amazing action scenes, though. There's plenty of explosions, there's floods, and overall general destruction. It's a different kind of movie, yes. But it's a good different kind of movie.My rating: 9/10

Someone's got a thing for John McClane.  Bombs are going off around New York and if McClane doesn't do what Simon says, more things will go boom.  Along for the ride with the always watchable Bruce Willis is Samuel L. Jackson, a electronics store owner who just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.  These two are off all over Manhattan figuring out Simon's little riddles.  Jeremy Irons is perfectly cast as the intelligent Simon.  He's shrewd, charming and knows how to get a job done.  Back in the director's chair is John McTiernan, overseeing the mayhem.  The action sequences are bigger, louder and wilder than before.  Car chases, shoot outs, and a really neat sequence involving a ship, a bridge and a truck highlight this action lovers delight.  So, buckle up, turn up the sound and get ready for a hell of a ride. New York is about to go boom!

I like this one about as much as I like the first one. The first one had a better plot and was more tense, but this one moves at a very fast rate and it seems like it is over before it begins. A vast improvement over part two, this movie once again finds McClane in the middle of an emergency situation. This time, unlike part two, though it is very reasonable that he is involved as Irons character is the brother of the lead villain of the first Die Hard. Throw in a very funny Samuel L Jacksoncharacter and you have the makings of a great film action wise andcomedy wise too. This one centers around a mad bomber, threatening to blow up several places including a school if officer McClane does not play the game. McClane must do whatever the bomber says and boy does the bomber do a lot to get our hero down. Great action is a given as our hero desperately must try to find the bombs. Multiple car scenes a cool scene on a boat, and loads and loads of gold thrown in for an exciting ride. Irons is great as the villain, as was Rickman in the first one. Truly this is one fast moving ride that will keep you well entertained throughout.

Die Hard With a Vengeance (1995) is the third film in the popular Die Hard franchise, which re teamed Bruce Willis with John McTiernan, the director of the first film. It is my second favorite Die Hard film in the franchise. It feel's fast paced, more realistic and more action movie to me. It is not boring or slow, I love the characters: John McClane, Zeus Carver, Simon Gruber, Joe Lambert, Connie Kowalski, Charlie Weiss, Katya and Mathias Targo. No CGI real action sequences, real explosions, real stunt performances. McClane fires a power line, severing it in to the helicopter blowing up the chopper to pieces amazing my personal favorite scene. I love this movie to death, this is my movie and it is my personal favorite action film. Die Hard With A Vengeance (1995) is a near-perfect summer movie. It is one of my personal favorite action movies. It is so good as the first one, I couldn't decide which one I love to Death: Die Hard or Die Hard With a Vengeance. I love this movie to death it is my number 1 favorite action film in Die Hard series and action films. I love the original Die Hard to death but I love this sequel much more. That's my personal opinion. This franchise effort is a gleeful no-brainer with nonstop action. Die Hard With A Vengeance I really do believe is the greatest action sequel and a true masterpiece to the first movie. It gives some additional action pleasure, as we get to watch action heroes Bruce Willis get smacked around for 128 minutes. In this third outing with John McClane, we are faced with yet another mad bomber on the loose. Jeremy Irons plays Simon, an East German Special Forces Colonel-turned-terrorist mastermind and the older brother of Hans Gruber, who has a score to settle with Detective McClane. Simon's bombing game comes complete with crafty riddles, which must be solved in a specified time or everything goes boom. McClane has no choice but to play. Along the way, he picks up an unlikely accomplice named Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson), a Harlem shopkeeper. Together they tear all over New York trying to head off disaster. Sure, it's all perfectly preposterous, but DIE HARD 3 has been directed with breathless intensity by John McTiernan, who certainly has a way with wrecking things. Was he very destructive as a child? Loved the spectacular subway crash, John. That hair-raising taxi ride through Central Park wasn't bad, either. I love the fact that they are saving kids from school. Charlie try's to disabled the bomb in school while Kowalski and Lambert are saving those kids stuck in the building I love that scene. McClane and Carver are desperately searching for the code for the bomb to disabled it, I love it to death. Don't forget to fasten your seat belts for this ride. It's often said that McTiernan and Hensleigh simply ignored Die Hard 2, and in terms of direct plot and dialogue references, this may be true, but they still give Die Hard 2 a nod by having an attendant humor--often almost "goofy" humor--in many action scenes. One of the most direct nods occurs with McClane "riding" something of an explosion (of water this time). This is one of the more hilarious scenes of the film.Die Hard with a Vengeance is a 1995 American action film and the third in the Die Hard film series. It was produced and directed by John McTiernan (who directed Die Hard), written by Jonathan Hensleigh, and stars Bruce Willis as New York City Police Department Lieutenant John McClane, Samuel L. Jackson as McClane's reluctant partner Zeus Carver, and Jeremy Irons as Simon Peter Gruber. Twenty years ago, after two blockbuster movies and a five-year wait, the "Die Hard" franchise roared back into theaters with the explosive "Die Hard with a Vengeance." The movie was released on May 19, 1995, and it was an instant classic, thanks to a smart script, exciting plot, and the absolutely stellar chemistry between Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson. But not only was "Die Hard with a Vengeance" a great movie, it was also arguably the best of its kind: unstoppable, and untoppable.Die Hard With A Vengeance was filmed before CGI made it possible to create scenes like this without breaking a single window, this moment is utter, terrifying perfection.How often do you get an action flick where the heroes spend the entire first half of the film solving puzzles to save lives? In a franchise that distinguishes itself with action that toes the line between "creative" and "ridiculous," "Die Hard with a Vengeance" stays on brand, in the best way.John McClane and a Harlem store owner are targeted by German terrorist Simon Gruber in New York City, where he plans to rob the Federal Reserve Building. 10/10 Score: bad Ass Seal Of Approval my personal second favorite Die Hard action movie.

Series note: Although the Die Hard films obviously follow one another chronologically in the film's universe, they are not really constructed as chapters in a novel. You could watch them in any order, but to give the characters more depth, and make better sense of a couple minor references, I would still recommend watching them in order.In my Die Hard 2 (1990) review, I complained (although apologetically) a bit about the lapses in internal logic. It ended up being somewhat excusable, because I read Die Hard 2 as a satire of the genre as much as a serious action film. With Die Hard 3, John McTiernan is back at the helm, as he was for Die Hard (1988), and the result is once again a more serious action film (containing some comic relief, of course) with very taut internal logic. In fact, Die Hard: With a Vengeance is so well constructed, so well acted and so well directed that I like it just as much, if not better, than Die Hard.John McClane (Bruce Willis) is once again separated from his wife, and he's once again living and working as a cop in New York City. As the film begins, he is on a temporary suspension for some never-specified infraction (it works better that it isn't specified, as it enables us to imagine all kinds of crazy things that this gruff character might have done). After a bomb explodes at the Bonwit Teller department store, a mysterious person calling himself "Simon" calls the police taking credit and asking to speak with McClane--or he'll detonate further bombs in crowded areas. They rouse McClane from the aftermath of a drunken stupor. He shows up at the police station with a hangover, looking haggard. "Simon" is fond of riddles and makes McClane engage in a bizarre game of "Simon Says". The first task is for McClane to head up to Harlem and stand on a street corner in his skivvies wearing a sandwich board that says only, "I Hate Blacks" (using a more inflammatory epithet than "blacks"). Of course, he almost gets killed, but at the last minute, a reluctant savior in the form of a local shopkeeper, Zeus Carver (Samuel L. Jackson), helps save his butt. Unwittingly, Carver ends up embroiled in the Simon Says games with McClane, with increasingly serious stakes. Just who is Simon? Why is he toying with McClane? I should note that I was predisposed to like this film. I like Bruce Willis a lot, but I especially love Samuel L. Jackson. The combination of the two here is simply magical. They have remarkable chemistry and the characters that scriptwriter Jonathan Hensleigh has drawn enable both deep tension and hilarious comic moments between the two.But the film succeeds on more than the charisma of its two principal actors. Die Hard: With a Vengeance has a fantastic, intelligent plot. Hensleigh ties his villain to the story of the first film in a semi-satirical way that gives the motivation for the "Simon Says" games great depth. The Simon Says games manage to be silly, smart, humorous and great catalysts for dramatic tension at the same time. There are subtle jokes about New York City, New York City cops, "reverse racism", European opinions of American intelligence, and so on. And of course, there are many edge-of-your-seat, nail-biting action sequences involving a wide variety of environments in the New York City area. The wide variety of environments was a nice change over the more limited settings of the previous two films, and gives Die Hard: With a Vengeance a feel almost like an adventure film.It's remarkable that Hensleigh and McTiernan were able to sustain such a high level of excellence throughout. If you look at Die Hard: With a Vengeance from a broader perspective, the whole is constructed something like one of Simon's puzzles. Every scene leads inevitably, logically to the next scene, even though the film takes many "left turns", and the solution of one dilemma to the next often involves split-second timing.It's often said that McTiernan and Hensleigh simply ignored Die Hard 2, and in terms of direct plot and dialogue references, this may be true, but they still give Die Hard 2 a nod by having an attendant humor--often almost "goofy" humor--in many action scenes. One of the most direct nods occurs with McClane "riding" something of an explosion (of water this time). This is one of the more hilarious scenes of the film.As for subtexts, they are similar to those of the first Die Hard, with some interesting additions. There is an intriguing parallel between McClane's disheveled state, the typical New York City chaos, and the attempts to further undermine stability from the villain. Focusing on this aspect, Carver provides more of a dependable, even-keeled balance.There are also direct references to very contemporary political subtexts--with foreigners having in mind that the U.S. has socio-economic power disproportionately in its favor. They claim to want to redress the imbalance, although in this film, at least, the claim may end up being a false representation--there appears to be corruption undermining it. However, it's interesting that there is yet another "twist" towards the end that shows the claim may not have been as corrupt as we initially believed, even if it still seems a bit mad and/or megalomaniacal. It's also interesting that the resolution is reached on foreign ground.But the subtexts in Die Hard: With a Vengeance may be even more minor focuses than in the previous two films. Instead the focus is on the spectacle of a tightly told, thrilling action/adventure story. That's all the film needs to succeed as well as it does.

*** 1/2 out of ****When one thinks of buddy action pictures, Lethal Weapon is immediately the first film to pop into your mind, since it virtually birthed the genre. Another choice would probably be Midnight Run or Rush Hour, the latter of which somehow took pop culture by storm (I recall my friends going around, shouting "My daddy once caught a bullet...").  So often left in the dust, probably because it was the third film of a trilogy and strayed quite a bit from its predecessors, is none other than Die Hard: With a Vengeance which, off the top of my head, is the best buddy action film I've ever seen.How can this be?  Better than Lethal Weapon 1 and 2?  Better than Rush Hour? Hell, I'll even say it's better than Die Hard and Die Harder.  Here is a film that wisely knows, as a second sequel, not to simply repeat the same material over again.  This has partially to do with the numerous Die Hard rip-offs (namely Under Siege and Speed), so those hooks were gone, and I absolutely thank God John Mctiernan and company didn't suddenly decide "we'll do Die Hard on a plane!," which would eventually be done three times (Executive Decision, Air Force One, and Con Air).  But what the filmmakers have done here is ingenious, they've widened the setting to include all of New York City.They do this and still manage to retain the intense claustrophobia that permeated the previous entries, doing so by displaying just how frantic morning traffic is and just how BIG New York is.  As nonsensical as that last statement may sound, imagine trying to get from point A to point B in the middle of a traffic jam.  Mctiernan really knows how to let the tension ratchet up from just the sound of honking horns.  Then there's the case of John McClane himself.  This time around, he's at the whim of a madman named Simon who requires him to perform certain tasks or New York buildings will be demolished by explosives. In the first two films, McClane was an everyman, which added much appeal, but he also acted a bit too much like a superhero to work consistently as an everyman, so what the filmmakers have done here is turn him into a jaded cop. He's seen this stuff before, so he's not as scared as he was before.  Willis is great at this role, too, seeing as he's done it before in The Last Boy Scout, but takes it to perfection here.Rather, who we now have as the everyman is Samuel L. Jackson as Zeus, and he's a brilliant addition.  Not only is Jackson simply awesome in his role, he's likeable, tough, and hilarious, but he's also easy to sympathize with because he's not an action hero.  He doesn't know how to use a gun, he has no combat training, and he's never had to take on terrorists before.  What makes him so effective is his street-wise nature, and this quality of his works perfectly with McClane's own street smarts AND action heroics, which they combine in their day-long adventure.  These two have a chemistry that at least equals Riggs and Murtaugh and if there's a Die Hard sequel, Jackson needs to come back.     Too many action movies give us poor villains who aren't menacing, vile, or charismatic enough to make for effective antagonists.  Jeremy Irons' Simon Gruber is an exception.  He is the best Die Hard villain, oozing charm and snaky intelligence.  This was one of the last few roles of Irons' career I could take seriously.  He's done what since then, Dungeons and Dragons? Pity how his career has taken such a downward spiral.And last, there's the story and action.  The plot's a lot of fun, with McClane and Zeus having to use both their brains and brawn to save the day. The contrivances in the finale (the scene with the handcuffs, the aspirin bottle) aren't enough to bring the climax down, though it's true the conclusion isn't as exciting as the rest of the film.  That's understandable though, since the rest of the action is magnificent, particularly a car "chase" through the streets of New York which is as unstaged as a car chase can possibly look.  The film moves at a lightning pace that grips you from the opening scene to the very last.  Die Hard: With a Vengeance is an action flick that has it all.

Regardless of what you might think of Bruce Willis, he really does excel in this series of films and John McClane, the all action policeman is the perfect role for him.This time his sidekick is the guru of the action film, Samuel L. Jackson, the owner of an electrical store, as he goes up against the ever excellent Jeremy irons, who can play a bad guy like few others.Irons is executing the greatest heist ever, and the shots throughout the film are spectacular.  The lack of any half decent script is completely masked by explosions, but what else would you expect?

This movie gets right to the point and starts off with an explosion. I love that. A crazy guy named Simon (played very well by Jeremy Irons) blows up a store, and asks to speak to John McClane, who is on suspension. The cops grab McClane, who is by now a heavy drinker, and put him on the phone with Simon. Simon makes him walk through Harlem with a very offensive sign. Just when he is about to get beat down, he is rescued by the racist Samuel L. Jackson, who plays Zeus. It seems as though Simon wants revenge on McClane for something, but nobody knows why. Now, Zeus and McClane are at the mercy of Simon, who meanwhile is committing a massive robbery.This movie is considerably different from the other two, which is probably a good thing. Who wants the same thing three times in a row? The plot has as many twists and turns as a snake, and the movie keeps the viewer involved. Watching Zeus and McClane bicker is amusing as well. Samuel L. Jackson pulls off the role of the "racist black man" very well. I would highly recommend this movie.

I have seen a lot of fuss about how underrated this movie is. One has to admit that it is a very entertaining, action-packed and sometimes very funny film. It was great to watch and I had a good time doing so, but honestly, it is not a clever picture.In order to enjoy it, one has to give to it the same license as one gives to a James Bond or Harry Potter movie. If one concentrates on the fact that it is impossible for a taxi to fly in the air all through Central Park and continue working fine or that magic does not exist, then you will not enjoy certain types of films.If you think about it, there are more holes in the plot, storyline and overall logic than bullet holes in total.And I am not talking about how easy it would be to dismantle the bombs or if McClain would have died at the initial tasks, the fail-proof diversion would make no sense. I refer to situations such as when everyone in the police force, FBI and even public servants in the NY metropolitan area knew that there was a 10KT bomb in a school where one of their sons, grandsons, or nephews was studying and the story did not leak. Absurd! Or when McClain realizes that it was all a diversion and the idea is to rob the Federal Reserve. He does not tell his boss because he is not 100% sure; instead he goes inside the bank to check. And when he sees what has happened, he still thinks that chasing 14 trucks driven by an army of mercenaries with an old compact car is a better idea than calling for backup. Only when the trucks escape at the Bridge he decides it is time to tell his boss.There are movies that have all the thrill and excitement of Die Hard 3 without all this nonsense. Take for instance Inside Man. That is a clever action movie. That is why it is rated better than this.

I have to say that I was really impressed with this Die Hard film, the trilogy has just been an awesome one. This time we have a new partner, Samuel L. Jackson, who works so well with Bruce, they have such a great chemistry as partners in the film. Die Hard: With a Vengeance is a worthy sequel of the original Die Hard. It has great action, a terrific story, and in some ways it's just a fun comedy. I loved how John just wouldn't stop complaining about the aspirin since he has a hang over from the night before. Especially his line when he finally gets aspirin from the main villain, it was just priceless. I think you'll definitely love this Die Hard if you are a fan.John is no longer at base one in life, he's actually farther behind I think, he's pretty much lost everything since his nasty drinking problem. He's suffering from a bad hang over this one morning and things get worse when he is threatened by an unknown villain to stand in the middle of the worst ghetto city wearing an offensive poster, right as he's about to get his butt killed, Zeus, a shop owner helps him out, but ends up getting involved. It turns out that the villain is Hans Gruber's brother, Simon Gruber, who is about to do everything his brother supposedly did wrong and will get the money. But John is going to make sure that he puts the Gruber name to shame.Die Hard: With a Vengeance is an excellent action movie, it was a lot of fun and I couldn't believe how well it was made. Sam and Bruce are just perfect together. Jeremy Irons could not be more perfect for the role of Simon, he and Alan are so much alike where they have the most awesome voices for super bad villains. Yes, a little typecast for being a British villain, but it's all good, I think. I highly recommend Die Hard: With a Veneance, it's a great movie and a great end to the trilogy.9/10.

I guess the "Die Hard" movies wouldn't have been the same without Bruce Willis as John McClane and Willis would probably never have been as known as he is today if it hadn't been for these movies. Sure, he has made many more movies, but I guess that, if you ask many people to name one movie with Bruce Willis in it, most of the time it will be one of the Die Hard movies which people will remember.McClane's life is a complete mess: he's about to divorce, he has been suspended and he drinks more alcohol than can possibly be good for him. But than a massive bomb explodes in the Bonwit Teller department store. Of course this causes a lot of commotion and the police is anxious to find out who did it, when they get a phone call from a guy with a German accent who calls himself "Simon". Simon wants McClane to go to the corner of 138th Street and Amsterdam in Harlem and wear a racist sign. Of course this will mean instant death, but why does Simon want to have him killed? The answer is simple, because he's the brother of Hans Gruber, the terrorist he threw off a building a few years back. Zeus Carver (Samuel L. Jackson), a local shop owner, saves McClane and together they find themselves in a deadly game of "Simon Says" while McClane isn't in the mood for games because he has a bad temper and an awful hangover...Normally I'm not a big fan of all those buddy/cop movies, but this movie is an exception. The interaction between Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson is of an outstanding quality. These two even made me forget about the, let's be honest, a bit silly story. The entire movie would have failed if it hadn't been for these two. I haven't had such a good time with this kind of movie since 'Lethal Weapon' (probably the best movie to compare it with) and that's why I give it a 7.5/10.

It's very rare for the first three films in a movie franchise to be consistently excellent, but that's the case with the DIE HARD series. The first one was an action movie masterpiece and hugely influential to this day. The second one is disliked by some, but I think it's very nearly the equal of the first, doing a tricky job of being the same but different at the same time. And the third is just a delight, an action comedy masterpiece that wreaks havoc throughout New York.Having the action move out of a single location and into an entire city was a genius idea. Director John McTiernan is at the top of his game here, filling his movie with an incredible sense of drive and momentum so that there's not a single moment where it's not funny, thrilling, or suspenseful. Bruce Willis has never been better and his repartee with Samuel L. Jackson (who also gives one of the best turns of his career) works incredibly well. Jeremy Irons has a ball as the bad guy and the whole 'Simon Says' game is very well staged. Plus you get all of the violence, fights, car chases, shoot-outs and clever situations that you could hope for in an action film. DIE HARD WITH A VENGEANCE truly is one of the best action films ever made and the kind of film I could sit and watch over and over again, and there are very few of those around.

This third part that brings again another impossible situation results to be a nice buddy movie with stoppable action, thrills, explosions, pursuits and humor. A powerful action thriller with the tough-cookie, wise-cracking cop John McClaine : Bruce Willis, who joins forces with Samuel L Jackson, as a reluctant shopkeeper , to take down villainous people who are planting a series of massive bombs across NYC and especially at the threatened schools plenty of little students . Here McClaine facing off foreign ruthless, high-stakes recruits and their heinous boss, Jeremy Irons, as the brother of of the bad boy, Alan Rickman, who Willis killed in the first film. Along the way MacClane dangerously fleeing from bursting dam waters rushing at him down underground tunnel.Here McClaine, Bruce Willis, is back home in the Big Apple, having another bad day and suffering chaos and destruction, including a breathtaking subway crash and a spectacular flood. Obviously repeats partially the plot of previous entries with references to the former in the screenplay, including his estranged and separated wife, Bonnie Bedelia . While the first outing Die Hard 1988 by John MacTiernan was set at a claustrophobic Los Angeles skycraper and the second Die Hard 2 : Die harder 1990 by Renny Harlin was set at an airport, this third part is set at New York streets. This installment features energetic action and finely acted interpretations from the three leads : Bruce Willis, Samuel L Jackson, Jeremy Irons. Being well accompanied by a nice support cast as Graham Greene, Colleen Camp, Sam Philips, Nick Wyman, and Tony Peck.It packs a colorful cinematography by Peter Menzies, adding an exessive hand-held camerawork and annoying steadicam. As well as rousing and moving musical score by Michael Kamen. This fast, well-done follow-up motion picture was professionally directed by John McTiernan, though is inferior than the first part which he made too. John is a good craftsman who has got a lot of hits, such as : Die Hard, Predator, The hunt for Red October, The 13th warrior, The Thomas Crown affair, Last action hero, ,but also some flops as Nomads, Medicine man, Basic, and Rollerball especially. Rating : 6.5/10. Notable action film. Better than average.

I hadn't seen this is years, but always had a favorable recollection of it. Watching it the other day, though, I was pretty disappointed. It is pretty action-packed, you have to say that for it. But a lot of the jokes don't work, and, though not its fault, the constant bantering on race issues feels very 90s and dated. But flat humor is its fault, as well as, at times, flat drama--especially when we're first getting to know Simon, his whole persona seems quite goofy. The other supporting cast seemed rather weak as well (the police chief for instance). I'd also argue it ran on a bit too long (or maybe I was just getting sleepy). Not to say I hated it, or that it didn't hold my interest for the most part, but I'd expect more from the director of the original Die Hard.

Die Hard With A Vengence is a near-perfect summer movie. This franchise effort is a gleeful no-brainer with nonstop action. It gives some additional perverse pleasure, as we get to watch smartypants Bruce Willis get smacked around for 112 minutes. In this third outing with John McClane, we are faced with yet another mad bomber on the loose. Jeremy Irons plays Simon, a nasty piece of Eurotrash who has a score to settle with Detective McClane. Simon's bombing game comes complete with crafty riddles, which must be solved in a specified time or everything goes boom. McClane has no choice but to play. Along the way, he picks up an unlikely accomplice named Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson), a Harlem shopkeeper. Together they tear all over New York trying to head off disaster. Sure, it's all perfectly preposterous, but DIE HARD 3 has been directed with breathless intensity by John McTiernan, who certainly has a way with wrecking things. Was he very destructive as a child? Loved the spectacular subway crash, John. That hair-raising taxi ride through Central Park wasn't bad, either. Don't forget to fasten your seat belts for this ride.

The movie starts off by re-introducing John McClane, and immediately takes off with non-stop action. Samuel L Jackson has great chemistry with Willis, and they really work with each other. Even thought the movie was made almost 20 years ago, due to the dependence on mainly practical effects, it still looks good. The one major downfall of the movie was the ending. It is too bad, since that is what the viewer will remember. It could have been easily re- mediated if they went with a less typical Hollywood-type ending, and that would also have been in line with everything else in the movie. Also, the water riddle was solved way too easily by John, and the editing of it didn't even show how he randomly arrived at the answer.

Someone calling himself Simon detonates several bombs in the centre of New York City.  He then sets a series of dangerous tasks for Officer John McClane to achieve or he will detonate more.  McClane sets out to meet the demands of the terrorists with bystander Zeus Carver in tow.This is the third in the Die Hard series and it makes an immediate improvement on the second by bringing back the original director John McTiernan.  Here the film doesn't try to repeat the formula of the first film (terrorists/wife/rescue) but instead takes on a whole new plot while still tying it into the first film.  The second movie tried to repeat the first film's plot but set in an airport, here the different angle makes this feel a lot fresher and feel like a movie in itself.  The tie-in to the first film is clever and not too much of a stretch of the imagination - happily this is not the reason for the action itself - instead the terrorist's main aim is the gold held in vaults in the Federal Reserve on Wall Street, but the game with McClane is a special treat.McTiernan was great in the first film, making everything feel tense and claustrophobic.  Here he has the whole of NYC to run across and the camera shows this new found freedom.  In action scenes the camera swings wildly round and zooms into focus on the action.  During scenes set in offices etc containing a lot of dialogue the camera slowly prowls round like it's dieing to rush off to the next action scene.  It's the opposite to the style in the first film and again makes this feels different enough to be a film in it's own right.Usually film series can get a lot of baggage (watch Lethal Weapon 4 for proof), but here all the repeat characters are dropped, even McClane's wife only features as a voice on the phone.  And that works well here and the only characters that are brought back here are McClane (of course) and Hans Gruber (in a flashback).  This frees the film up to basically go where it wants without having to squeeze in old characters the way the second film did.  However it links the films by having Simon Gruber taking supposed revenge for the death of his brother.  The fresh active feel to this movie really gives it life and lifts the series out of the hole that the second film had threatened to put it.The chemistry between Willis and Jackson is great and lends a lot of comedy to the film, there's lot of racial humour between the two and Jackson is more than the "black sidekick" that exists in many films.  Irons continues the fine tradition of English actors playing Hollywood villains and is good for the most.  His ticks and stutters stop him being anywhere near as good as Rickman was in the original role but he's still good.  Willis gets good support from the likes of Graham Greene, Larry Bryggman and Colleen Camp as fellow cops but really him and Jackson carry the show.Some of the scenes are a little forced and the plot doesn't always join together easily (a scene where Willis is fired out of a water pipe just as Jackson happens to drive by is a little too convenient) but many iffy bits can be overlooked if you focus on the action.  The most effective thing that returns from the first film is the musical score.  In the first film the score used variations on Christmas music to dramatic effect, here the score uses music well to add tension and comedy in a different way.  It's difficult to put into words but this effect was missing from the second film.The film has a hatful of nice twists towards the end and the only problem is that the conclusion in Canada doesn't feel like it fits in (the original ending was changed following the Okalahoma bombing) but this is a minor problem in a film that is a great addition to the action packed Die Hard series.

As with any effective action movie, you're glued to the screen even as you goggle at the stupidity of it all. People get shot, sawed in half by wire ropes, blown up, run over by renegade subway trains, electrocuted by helicopters whose rotor blades make a mare's nest of high-tension power cables. I couldn't count the number of exploding fireballs. There are, I think, three maniacal car chases. (It depends on how you define car chase. Is a lone cab bounding at full speed through the woods of Central Park a "car chase"?) It's like watching a Roadrunner cartoon. Bruce Willis is spat out of an aqueduct tunnel by the force of the water, loops through the air, and plops down into a mud puddle unhurt. "Whew," he's likely to say, "what a #@#%!%#@^%!ing close call THAT was!" Samuel Jackson as his unwilling partner matches him step for step, in a plot partly structured along the lines of the old mismatched cop movies that ran out of steam a decade or so ago.Both Willis and Jackson are quite good for reasons most people already will recognize. There's nothing like a blood-covered Willis wisecracking and wincing with real pain as he extracts a piece of shrapnel from his flesh with his own teeth -- unless it's Jackson with his bulging eyes and crackling high voice responding angrily to some racist remark. "Say WHUT?" I see I've kind of skipped much of the plot but it wanders off in several tenuously related directions anyway? Jeremy Irons with a faux German accent is the heavy and he belongs in a different movie. Nobody else registers.You know what it's like? It's like a comic pornographic film. "Debby Does New York." Exciting episode follows exciting episode and they are linked by only the slenderest of narrative threads.Let's see. That makes it a combination skin flick, mismatched cop movie, and Roadrunner cartoon. Hmmmm. Yeah, I guess that about covers it. It's tense, amusing, and filled with stunts. And if you're in the proper mood it's captivating.

Man, I was watching this movie the other day and I can't believe how good this movie is. Even though I liked Die Harder, it lacked the brains of its predecessor. John McTiernan returned to give us an action flick that not only delivers as an action flick but is also quite effective as a thriller.Simon Peter Gruber(Jeremy Irons) is the brother of Hans Gruber who was killed by McClane in the Nakatomi Plaza. He detonates a few bombs in New York City and sends McClane on "Fools Errands" while covering up his real scheme: to steal gold reserves. McClane is saved from an a**kicking by angry mob by Zeus Carver(Samuel L Jackson), a shop owner. They reluctantly team up to play along with Simon's games. They later find out his big scheme all along.Samuel Jackson and Bruce Willis have excellent chemistry together. Plus you have to admire the match up. Zeus Carver has a nationalistic mentality and John McClane is your not-so-average white-bread cop. Despite their differences they still get together to handle the same goal. Zeus despite his prejudices was still a factor in helping McClane solve those riddles which were more clever than the riddles that were given to you by Jim Carrey's Riddler in Batman Forever.Jeremy Irons is magnificent as Simon Peter Gruber. He's definitely one of the best movie villains in history. His plan showed a clever genius absent from movie villains nowadays. Quite possibly the last serious role that Jeremy Irons had. Tell the truth, can you look at him with a straight face after he starred in Dungeons and Dragons? I think not.I like the pacing of this movie too. It keeps you glued to the screen and provides a thrill ride from start to finish. Im kind of surprised That everybody knows that its better than Die Hard 2. Plus this movie has lowest score of all Die Hard movies on Rottentomatoes. Shows you just how much these snooty consensus followers really know. The fact that this movie was outsold by Batman Forever in the box office shows you exactly where the intelligence of the movie-going was heading. Straight down the toilet bowl and they've been sinking further into the sewer since then.If you're looking for an action/thriller that doesn't disappoint you cant go wrong with Die Hard With A Vengeance. It has great acting, a superb villain, a good plot and some engaging action sequences. More effective than what passes for Thriller these days and is easily the most underrated action sequel of all time.

Well, if you enjoyed the 1988 "Die Hard" and the 1990 "Die Hard 2" movies, then you most certainly will also enjoy the 1995 third movie in the franchise "Die Hard: With a Vengeance".The storyline as delivered by writer Jonathan Hensleigh proved to be innovative for the franchise, while it kept the very essence and spirit of the franchise at heart. So "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" was a welcomed addiction to the action franchise.Once again does Bruce Willis return to reprise the role as John McClane, the police officer with an attitude and a knack for getting himself into precarious situations. And this third movie also has Jeremy Irons and Samuel L. Jackson on the cast list, both of whom definitely added something unique to the movie and to the franchise as a whole. Jeremy Irons proved to be right up there alongside with Alan Rickman in terms of portraying an interesting villain in this particular franchise."Die Hard: With a Vengeance" has an abundance of action, just as the previous two movies did, so you are definitely in for a treat. But at the same time, then "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" proves to have more to its storyline than just action and that stereotypical one-man-against-an-army-of-bad-guys feel to it.I will say that the storyline told in "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" was an enjoyable one, and there were some nice twists to the plot along the way, which made for a non-linear and somewhat unpredictable storyline. Not only is it an entertaining story, but director John McTiernan also manages to get the audience dragged in and feeling like they are right there alongside McClane and Zeus.If you haven't already seen the 1995 movie "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" from director John McTiernan, it is about time you do so, as this is an entertaining and enjoyable action movie. My rating of "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" settles on a well-deserved 7 out of 10 stars.

"Die Hard: With a Vengeance" is a full-blooded action vehicle; it is a smart one, too, because its filmmakers realize the ol' one-man-army-trapped-in-an-area routine can't last long. So they have changed the technique to a game of revenge; cat-and-mouse. Some could call it smarter than its predecessors; and on a level as a thriller I must admit it is more intense. It is a lot better than the 1990 Renny Harlin actioner "Die Hard 2: Die Harder." But on terms of fun, you can't beat the original.John McTiernan, who brought us "Predator," "The 13th Warrior" and "Die Hard," returned to end this series on a high note. Of course, like all sagas, "Die Hard" is far from over, with another sequel due to be released summer 2004. But until then, we can look to "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" as the end-all to the overall excellent John McClane trilogy.The third film opens up where nothing left off; McClane (Bruce Willis) is on the streets of NYC when a man who calls himself "Simon" blows up a Manhattan department store, and then orders McClane to stand in Harlem with a sandwich board that says...well...something you wouldn't want to be wearing in Harlem. After a convenience store owner named Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson) saves McClane, Simon orders both men to run around New York City and do Simon Says-type-games. It's all good fun, and a step away from the original film. Which can be good or bad.Soon McClane finds out that "Simon" is really the brother of Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman) from the first film, and that "Simon" is out for revenge against McClane (or is he?), and he will stop at nothing to kill McClane. But, of course, being a madman, he plays mind games with John McClane first. And the simon says mind games are tense, taught and action-packed.It's hard to compare something like this to the original for one major reason: It is nothing like the original. The original was about a lone man fighting off a million guys, Rambo-style. But what saved it from becoming another average action spectacular was the great dialogue, non-stop SMART action sequences, and engaging performences by all aboard the project. Fast-forward two years later and you've got a replicant copy of the first film set in Dulles airport in Washington, D.C. But in all respect, "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" is not recycled. Its technique is new, and it almost seems as if it is not a sequel to the other "Die Hard" films. Which is probably not too odd, seeing that the script, originally titled "Simon Says" (no, not the Dennis Rodman one), was actually a sequel to "Lethal Weapon." Of course, moderations were made after the "Die Hard" series bought out the script, but the character of Zeus was probably Danny Glover, and John McClane was probably Mel Gibson. Thinkabouddit.Bruce Willis is still John McClane. This film takes his character into a bit of a darker realm; McClane now has an alcohol problem, and his wife has left him again. Man, you'd think after having your life saved TWICE by the same guy that MAYBE you should stick with him. In fact, we don't even see McClane's wife (Bonnie Bedalia) in this film at all. Notta. Zip. Although we are led to believe they will hook up again at the end. Just wait until the next film, I saw.Samuel L. Jackson adds some flair to the film, taking the movie into a more cop-buddy dimension ("Lethal Weapon"). Jackson's character is a racist, and it's a bit odd to see a black racist in a film. It's usually those nasty white fellas. :) I liked Jackson's character, because it provides for dialogue outlet on McClane's behalf, and sets the film up for some very funny sequences. The character interaction is a lot stronger here than it was in "Die Hard 2: Die Harder.""Die Hard: With a Vengeance" is hard to compare to the original because it is so very different. But the bottom line is that this sequel is much better than "Die Hard 2: Die Harder," but a step down from "Die Hard." But seeing how different it is, you might think it is better than both the films. It really depends on your preferences.I give this solid action film a solid rating of 4/5 stars - an all-around solid action sequel. Solid fun.

This movie begs the question of, "What makes a Die Hard movie?" Each Die Hard movie is based on a book, but they are all from different series. This means that the original screenplays, were not written with John McClain in mind. This one, for example, was originally called "Simon Says". Before this film, most people would associate a "Die Hard" film as an action film that takes place almost entirely in one location. This is why so many Die Hard knock offs would be defined by where it was happening, on a bus, a plane, a mountain or a tunnel. This time around, McClain has a full city to roam around in. Another aspect would be that of Christmas. Both of the previous entries took place during Christmas, this one only makes the occasional reference to the holiday. So how does this film even consider itself Die Hard?But this film has 3 important aspects that make it feel genuinely "Die Hard".#1. John McLain takes a beating. Die Hard is known for its visceral action, and this one brings it to life. McClain isn't winning because he is the smartest or strongest, he is just the guy that happens to show up. And by the end of the movie, you do feel like he has gone through some of the worst stuff and is just still standing by sheer will power.#2 A memorable villain. Much like Hans Gruber before him, Simon, as played by Jeremy Irons, is an absolute delight. He has the right level of camp and menace. He feels like he is relishing every scene of villainy he is doing. But at the same time, is still nice enough to throw a man some aspirin if he has a headache. It almost feels like he is playing the live action version of Scar, and what could be wrong with that.#3 John McTiernan is back baby! The legendary director has returned and has not missed a beat. He knows how to best frame an action scene so that our heroes feel like they are in the most peril. He is able to elevate the material to something above and beyond."Die Hard 3" may not be a game changer the same way the first film was, but it is still a really good action film. My main complaints would be the bickering between Jackson and Willis gets on my nerves and the ending is a bit of a letdown.Simon says, give it a watch.

I'm not sure why some people dismiss this as a weaker film in the Die Hard series. Obviously the first one was incredible and nothing can ever really live up to it in my mind, but this one (the third one) is at least as good as the second Die Hard film, and they are both definitely a million times better than the awful Die Hard films that have come since the first three.Great action, lots of good humor, good acting. This movie has it all, even a fantastic villain. Plus Samuel L. Jackson in a supporting role. This is a great action movie.

John McClane (Bruce Willis) has fallen on hard times. A bomber (Jeremy Irons) demands that McClane play a game and the NYPD recalls him back to work. In one game, he's helped by a good Samaritan Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson). The two go off on a high intensity scavenger hunt.The fact that he's called in by name means that this one veers off from the formula from the start. The first two had him alone in the wrong place at the wrong time surprising the bad guys. This one he's paired up, demanded by the bad guy to play a game running across NY. It feels like a different franchise. Where's the family? They've thrown out the formula.Director John McTiernan returns to do a big action extravaganza. He follows the rule of sequels by making a bigger movie. Jeremy Irons is a great bad guy, but I would prefer Bruce Willis to be a lone wolf. Nevertheless Sam Jackson is always a great choice. If this wasn't a Die Hard movie, it would be just another brainless action thriller.

John McTiernan returned to direct this third entry that sees Bruce Willis returning as Police Officer John McClane, who is suspended from the force and separated from his wife. To make things worse for poor John, he is the target of retribution by terrorist Simon Gruber(played by Jeremy Irons) brother of Hans from the first film, is forcing him to play his games all over the city, or he will detonate more bombs, though it turns out he has an entirely different motivation in mind, which McClane is determined to stop. Action-packed but disappointing sequel has a plot that doesn't hold up to scrutiny, and the stunts this time around defy credibility. Poor John McClane has been through enough!

This is definitely the grittiest of all the 3 Die Hard films. John Mclane is now a drunk, he's separated from his family, living in New York, and to make matters worse a terrorist calling himself "Simon" is out for revenge on Mclane. Mclane, and everyone else, has absolutely no idea why.The first 2 films are superior to this one since this has a lot of changes from the mood that made the others so great. First off, it's not set on Christmas. No biggie though. Secondly, there are too many complications and twists to the plot. You almost have to take notes. And thirdly, the biggest change is that it's now turned into a buddy movie to the style of Lethal Weapon, since Samuel L. Jackson as Zeus unwillingly teams up with John Mclane. They're complete opposites, they argue, and they become friends. That sort of stuff.Die Hard: With A Vengeance still stays true to it's amazing action scenes, though. There's plenty of explosions, there's floods, and overall general destruction. It's a different kind of movie, yes. But it's a good different kind of movie.My rating: 9/10

Someone's got a thing for John McClane.  Bombs are going off around New York and if McClane doesn't do what Simon says, more things will go boom.  Along for the ride with the always watchable Bruce Willis is Samuel L. Jackson, a electronics store owner who just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.  These two are off all over Manhattan figuring out Simon's little riddles.  Jeremy Irons is perfectly cast as the intelligent Simon.  He's shrewd, charming and knows how to get a job done.  Back in the director's chair is John McTiernan, overseeing the mayhem.  The action sequences are bigger, louder and wilder than before.  Car chases, shoot outs, and a really neat sequence involving a ship, a bridge and a truck highlight this action lovers delight.  So, buckle up, turn up the sound and get ready for a hell of a ride. New York is about to go boom!

I like this one about as much as I like the first one. The first one had a better plot and was more tense, but this one moves at a very fast rate and it seems like it is over before it begins. A vast improvement over part two, this movie once again finds McClane in the middle of an emergency situation. This time, unlike part two, though it is very reasonable that he is involved as Irons character is the brother of the lead villain of the first Die Hard. Throw in a very funny Samuel L Jacksoncharacter and you have the makings of a great film action wise andcomedy wise too. This one centers around a mad bomber, threatening to blow up several places including a school if officer McClane does not play the game. McClane must do whatever the bomber says and boy does the bomber do a lot to get our hero down. Great action is a given as our hero desperately must try to find the bombs. Multiple car scenes a cool scene on a boat, and loads and loads of gold thrown in for an exciting ride. Irons is great as the villain, as was Rickman in the first one. Truly this is one fast moving ride that will keep you well entertained throughout.

Die Hard With a Vengeance (1995) is the third film in the popular Die Hard franchise, which re teamed Bruce Willis with John McTiernan, the director of the first film. It is my second favorite Die Hard film in the franchise. It feel's fast paced, more realistic and more action movie to me. It is not boring or slow, I love the characters: John McClane, Zeus Carver, Simon Gruber, Joe Lambert, Connie Kowalski, Charlie Weiss, Katya and Mathias Targo. No CGI real action sequences, real explosions, real stunt performances. McClane fires a power line, severing it in to the helicopter blowing up the chopper to pieces amazing my personal favorite scene. I love this movie to death, this is my movie and it is my personal favorite action film. Die Hard With A Vengeance (1995) is a near-perfect summer movie. It is one of my personal favorite action movies. It is so good as the first one, I couldn't decide which one I love to Death: Die Hard or Die Hard With a Vengeance. I love this movie to death it is my number 1 favorite action film in Die Hard series and action films. I love the original Die Hard to death but I love this sequel much more. That's my personal opinion. This franchise effort is a gleeful no-brainer with nonstop action. Die Hard With A Vengeance I really do believe is the greatest action sequel and a true masterpiece to the first movie. It gives some additional action pleasure, as we get to watch action heroes Bruce Willis get smacked around for 128 minutes. In this third outing with John McClane, we are faced with yet another mad bomber on the loose. Jeremy Irons plays Simon, an East German Special Forces Colonel-turned-terrorist mastermind and the older brother of Hans Gruber, who has a score to settle with Detective McClane. Simon's bombing game comes complete with crafty riddles, which must be solved in a specified time or everything goes boom. McClane has no choice but to play. Along the way, he picks up an unlikely accomplice named Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson), a Harlem shopkeeper. Together they tear all over New York trying to head off disaster. Sure, it's all perfectly preposterous, but DIE HARD 3 has been directed with breathless intensity by John McTiernan, who certainly has a way with wrecking things. Was he very destructive as a child? Loved the spectacular subway crash, John. That hair-raising taxi ride through Central Park wasn't bad, either. I love the fact that they are saving kids from school. Charlie try's to disabled the bomb in school while Kowalski and Lambert are saving those kids stuck in the building I love that scene. McClane and Carver are desperately searching for the code for the bomb to disabled it, I love it to death. Don't forget to fasten your seat belts for this ride. It's often said that McTiernan and Hensleigh simply ignored Die Hard 2, and in terms of direct plot and dialogue references, this may be true, but they still give Die Hard 2 a nod by having an attendant humor--often almost "goofy" humor--in many action scenes. One of the most direct nods occurs with McClane "riding" something of an explosion (of water this time). This is one of the more hilarious scenes of the film.Die Hard with a Vengeance is a 1995 American action film and the third in the Die Hard film series. It was produced and directed by John McTiernan (who directed Die Hard), written by Jonathan Hensleigh, and stars Bruce Willis as New York City Police Department Lieutenant John McClane, Samuel L. Jackson as McClane's reluctant partner Zeus Carver, and Jeremy Irons as Simon Peter Gruber. Twenty years ago, after two blockbuster movies and a five-year wait, the "Die Hard" franchise roared back into theaters with the explosive "Die Hard with a Vengeance." The movie was released on May 19, 1995, and it was an instant classic, thanks to a smart script, exciting plot, and the absolutely stellar chemistry between Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson. But not only was "Die Hard with a Vengeance" a great movie, it was also arguably the best of its kind: unstoppable, and untoppable.Die Hard With A Vengeance was filmed before CGI made it possible to create scenes like this without breaking a single window, this moment is utter, terrifying perfection.How often do you get an action flick where the heroes spend the entire first half of the film solving puzzles to save lives? In a franchise that distinguishes itself with action that toes the line between "creative" and "ridiculous," "Die Hard with a Vengeance" stays on brand, in the best way.John McClane and a Harlem store owner are targeted by German terrorist Simon Gruber in New York City, where he plans to rob the Federal Reserve Building. 10/10 Score: bad Ass Seal Of Approval my personal second favorite Die Hard action movie.

Series note: Although the Die Hard films obviously follow one another chronologically in the film's universe, they are not really constructed as chapters in a novel. You could watch them in any order, but to give the characters more depth, and make better sense of a couple minor references, I would still recommend watching them in order.In my Die Hard 2 (1990) review, I complained (although apologetically) a bit about the lapses in internal logic. It ended up being somewhat excusable, because I read Die Hard 2 as a satire of the genre as much as a serious action film. With Die Hard 3, John McTiernan is back at the helm, as he was for Die Hard (1988), and the result is once again a more serious action film (containing some comic relief, of course) with very taut internal logic. In fact, Die Hard: With a Vengeance is so well constructed, so well acted and so well directed that I like it just as much, if not better, than Die Hard.John McClane (Bruce Willis) is once again separated from his wife, and he's once again living and working as a cop in New York City. As the film begins, he is on a temporary suspension for some never-specified infraction (it works better that it isn't specified, as it enables us to imagine all kinds of crazy things that this gruff character might have done). After a bomb explodes at the Bonwit Teller department store, a mysterious person calling himself "Simon" calls the police taking credit and asking to speak with McClane--or he'll detonate further bombs in crowded areas. They rouse McClane from the aftermath of a drunken stupor. He shows up at the police station with a hangover, looking haggard. "Simon" is fond of riddles and makes McClane engage in a bizarre game of "Simon Says". The first task is for McClane to head up to Harlem and stand on a street corner in his skivvies wearing a sandwich board that says only, "I Hate Blacks" (using a more inflammatory epithet than "blacks"). Of course, he almost gets killed, but at the last minute, a reluctant savior in the form of a local shopkeeper, Zeus Carver (Samuel L. Jackson), helps save his butt. Unwittingly, Carver ends up embroiled in the Simon Says games with McClane, with increasingly serious stakes. Just who is Simon? Why is he toying with McClane? I should note that I was predisposed to like this film. I like Bruce Willis a lot, but I especially love Samuel L. Jackson. The combination of the two here is simply magical. They have remarkable chemistry and the characters that scriptwriter Jonathan Hensleigh has drawn enable both deep tension and hilarious comic moments between the two.But the film succeeds on more than the charisma of its two principal actors. Die Hard: With a Vengeance has a fantastic, intelligent plot. Hensleigh ties his villain to the story of the first film in a semi-satirical way that gives the motivation for the "Simon Says" games great depth. The Simon Says games manage to be silly, smart, humorous and great catalysts for dramatic tension at the same time. There are subtle jokes about New York City, New York City cops, "reverse racism", European opinions of American intelligence, and so on. And of course, there are many edge-of-your-seat, nail-biting action sequences involving a wide variety of environments in the New York City area. The wide variety of environments was a nice change over the more limited settings of the previous two films, and gives Die Hard: With a Vengeance a feel almost like an adventure film.It's remarkable that Hensleigh and McTiernan were able to sustain such a high level of excellence throughout. If you look at Die Hard: With a Vengeance from a broader perspective, the whole is constructed something like one of Simon's puzzles. Every scene leads inevitably, logically to the next scene, even though the film takes many "left turns", and the solution of one dilemma to the next often involves split-second timing.It's often said that McTiernan and Hensleigh simply ignored Die Hard 2, and in terms of direct plot and dialogue references, this may be true, but they still give Die Hard 2 a nod by having an attendant humor--often almost "goofy" humor--in many action scenes. One of the most direct nods occurs with McClane "riding" something of an explosion (of water this time). This is one of the more hilarious scenes of the film.As for subtexts, they are similar to those of the first Die Hard, with some interesting additions. There is an intriguing parallel between McClane's disheveled state, the typical New York City chaos, and the attempts to further undermine stability from the villain. Focusing on this aspect, Carver provides more of a dependable, even-keeled balance.There are also direct references to very contemporary political subtexts--with foreigners having in mind that the U.S. has socio-economic power disproportionately in its favor. They claim to want to redress the imbalance, although in this film, at least, the claim may end up being a false representation--there appears to be corruption undermining it. However, it's interesting that there is yet another "twist" towards the end that shows the claim may not have been as corrupt as we initially believed, even if it still seems a bit mad and/or megalomaniacal. It's also interesting that the resolution is reached on foreign ground.But the subtexts in Die Hard: With a Vengeance may be even more minor focuses than in the previous two films. Instead the focus is on the spectacle of a tightly told, thrilling action/adventure story. That's all the film needs to succeed as well as it does.

*** 1/2 out of ****When one thinks of buddy action pictures, Lethal Weapon is immediately the first film to pop into your mind, since it virtually birthed the genre. Another choice would probably be Midnight Run or Rush Hour, the latter of which somehow took pop culture by storm (I recall my friends going around, shouting "My daddy once caught a bullet...").  So often left in the dust, probably because it was the third film of a trilogy and strayed quite a bit from its predecessors, is none other than Die Hard: With a Vengeance which, off the top of my head, is the best buddy action film I've ever seen.How can this be?  Better than Lethal Weapon 1 and 2?  Better than Rush Hour? Hell, I'll even say it's better than Die Hard and Die Harder.  Here is a film that wisely knows, as a second sequel, not to simply repeat the same material over again.  This has partially to do with the numerous Die Hard rip-offs (namely Under Siege and Speed), so those hooks were gone, and I absolutely thank God John Mctiernan and company didn't suddenly decide "we'll do Die Hard on a plane!," which would eventually be done three times (Executive Decision, Air Force One, and Con Air).  But what the filmmakers have done here is ingenious, they've widened the setting to include all of New York City.They do this and still manage to retain the intense claustrophobia that permeated the previous entries, doing so by displaying just how frantic morning traffic is and just how BIG New York is.  As nonsensical as that last statement may sound, imagine trying to get from point A to point B in the middle of a traffic jam.  Mctiernan really knows how to let the tension ratchet up from just the sound of honking horns.  Then there's the case of John McClane himself.  This time around, he's at the whim of a madman named Simon who requires him to perform certain tasks or New York buildings will be demolished by explosives. In the first two films, McClane was an everyman, which added much appeal, but he also acted a bit too much like a superhero to work consistently as an everyman, so what the filmmakers have done here is turn him into a jaded cop. He's seen this stuff before, so he's not as scared as he was before.  Willis is great at this role, too, seeing as he's done it before in The Last Boy Scout, but takes it to perfection here.Rather, who we now have as the everyman is Samuel L. Jackson as Zeus, and he's a brilliant addition.  Not only is Jackson simply awesome in his role, he's likeable, tough, and hilarious, but he's also easy to sympathize with because he's not an action hero.  He doesn't know how to use a gun, he has no combat training, and he's never had to take on terrorists before.  What makes him so effective is his street-wise nature, and this quality of his works perfectly with McClane's own street smarts AND action heroics, which they combine in their day-long adventure.  These two have a chemistry that at least equals Riggs and Murtaugh and if there's a Die Hard sequel, Jackson needs to come back.     Too many action movies give us poor villains who aren't menacing, vile, or charismatic enough to make for effective antagonists.  Jeremy Irons' Simon Gruber is an exception.  He is the best Die Hard villain, oozing charm and snaky intelligence.  This was one of the last few roles of Irons' career I could take seriously.  He's done what since then, Dungeons and Dragons? Pity how his career has taken such a downward spiral.And last, there's the story and action.  The plot's a lot of fun, with McClane and Zeus having to use both their brains and brawn to save the day. The contrivances in the finale (the scene with the handcuffs, the aspirin bottle) aren't enough to bring the climax down, though it's true the conclusion isn't as exciting as the rest of the film.  That's understandable though, since the rest of the action is magnificent, particularly a car "chase" through the streets of New York which is as unstaged as a car chase can possibly look.  The film moves at a lightning pace that grips you from the opening scene to the very last.  Die Hard: With a Vengeance is an action flick that has it all.

Regardless of what you might think of Bruce Willis, he really does excel in this series of films and John McClane, the all action policeman is the perfect role for him.This time his sidekick is the guru of the action film, Samuel L. Jackson, the owner of an electrical store, as he goes up against the ever excellent Jeremy irons, who can play a bad guy like few others.Irons is executing the greatest heist ever, and the shots throughout the film are spectacular.  The lack of any half decent script is completely masked by explosions, but what else would you expect?

This movie gets right to the point and starts off with an explosion. I love that. A crazy guy named Simon (played very well by Jeremy Irons) blows up a store, and asks to speak to John McClane, who is on suspension. The cops grab McClane, who is by now a heavy drinker, and put him on the phone with Simon. Simon makes him walk through Harlem with a very offensive sign. Just when he is about to get beat down, he is rescued by the racist Samuel L. Jackson, who plays Zeus. It seems as though Simon wants revenge on McClane for something, but nobody knows why. Now, Zeus and McClane are at the mercy of Simon, who meanwhile is committing a massive robbery.This movie is considerably different from the other two, which is probably a good thing. Who wants the same thing three times in a row? The plot has as many twists and turns as a snake, and the movie keeps the viewer involved. Watching Zeus and McClane bicker is amusing as well. Samuel L. Jackson pulls off the role of the "racist black man" very well. I would highly recommend this movie.

I have seen a lot of fuss about how underrated this movie is. One has to admit that it is a very entertaining, action-packed and sometimes very funny film. It was great to watch and I had a good time doing so, but honestly, it is not a clever picture.In order to enjoy it, one has to give to it the same license as one gives to a James Bond or Harry Potter movie. If one concentrates on the fact that it is impossible for a taxi to fly in the air all through Central Park and continue working fine or that magic does not exist, then you will not enjoy certain types of films.If you think about it, there are more holes in the plot, storyline and overall logic than bullet holes in total.And I am not talking about how easy it would be to dismantle the bombs or if McClain would have died at the initial tasks, the fail-proof diversion would make no sense. I refer to situations such as when everyone in the police force, FBI and even public servants in the NY metropolitan area knew that there was a 10KT bomb in a school where one of their sons, grandsons, or nephews was studying and the story did not leak. Absurd! Or when McClain realizes that it was all a diversion and the idea is to rob the Federal Reserve. He does not tell his boss because he is not 100% sure; instead he goes inside the bank to check. And when he sees what has happened, he still thinks that chasing 14 trucks driven by an army of mercenaries with an old compact car is a better idea than calling for backup. Only when the trucks escape at the Bridge he decides it is time to tell his boss.There are movies that have all the thrill and excitement of Die Hard 3 without all this nonsense. Take for instance Inside Man. That is a clever action movie. That is why it is rated better than this.

I have to say that I was really impressed with this Die Hard film, the trilogy has just been an awesome one. This time we have a new partner, Samuel L. Jackson, who works so well with Bruce, they have such a great chemistry as partners in the film. Die Hard: With a Vengeance is a worthy sequel of the original Die Hard. It has great action, a terrific story, and in some ways it's just a fun comedy. I loved how John just wouldn't stop complaining about the aspirin since he has a hang over from the night before. Especially his line when he finally gets aspirin from the main villain, it was just priceless. I think you'll definitely love this Die Hard if you are a fan.John is no longer at base one in life, he's actually farther behind I think, he's pretty much lost everything since his nasty drinking problem. He's suffering from a bad hang over this one morning and things get worse when he is threatened by an unknown villain to stand in the middle of the worst ghetto city wearing an offensive poster, right as he's about to get his butt killed, Zeus, a shop owner helps him out, but ends up getting involved. It turns out that the villain is Hans Gruber's brother, Simon Gruber, who is about to do everything his brother supposedly did wrong and will get the money. But John is going to make sure that he puts the Gruber name to shame.Die Hard: With a Vengeance is an excellent action movie, it was a lot of fun and I couldn't believe how well it was made. Sam and Bruce are just perfect together. Jeremy Irons could not be more perfect for the role of Simon, he and Alan are so much alike where they have the most awesome voices for super bad villains. Yes, a little typecast for being a British villain, but it's all good, I think. I highly recommend Die Hard: With a Veneance, it's a great movie and a great end to the trilogy.9/10.

I guess the "Die Hard" movies wouldn't have been the same without Bruce Willis as John McClane and Willis would probably never have been as known as he is today if it hadn't been for these movies. Sure, he has made many more movies, but I guess that, if you ask many people to name one movie with Bruce Willis in it, most of the time it will be one of the Die Hard movies which people will remember.McClane's life is a complete mess: he's about to divorce, he has been suspended and he drinks more alcohol than can possibly be good for him. But than a massive bomb explodes in the Bonwit Teller department store. Of course this causes a lot of commotion and the police is anxious to find out who did it, when they get a phone call from a guy with a German accent who calls himself "Simon". Simon wants McClane to go to the corner of 138th Street and Amsterdam in Harlem and wear a racist sign. Of course this will mean instant death, but why does Simon want to have him killed? The answer is simple, because he's the brother of Hans Gruber, the terrorist he threw off a building a few years back. Zeus Carver (Samuel L. Jackson), a local shop owner, saves McClane and together they find themselves in a deadly game of "Simon Says" while McClane isn't in the mood for games because he has a bad temper and an awful hangover...Normally I'm not a big fan of all those buddy/cop movies, but this movie is an exception. The interaction between Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson is of an outstanding quality. These two even made me forget about the, let's be honest, a bit silly story. The entire movie would have failed if it hadn't been for these two. I haven't had such a good time with this kind of movie since 'Lethal Weapon' (probably the best movie to compare it with) and that's why I give it a 7.5/10.

It's very rare for the first three films in a movie franchise to be consistently excellent, but that's the case with the DIE HARD series. The first one was an action movie masterpiece and hugely influential to this day. The second one is disliked by some, but I think it's very nearly the equal of the first, doing a tricky job of being the same but different at the same time. And the third is just a delight, an action comedy masterpiece that wreaks havoc throughout New York.Having the action move out of a single location and into an entire city was a genius idea. Director John McTiernan is at the top of his game here, filling his movie with an incredible sense of drive and momentum so that there's not a single moment where it's not funny, thrilling, or suspenseful. Bruce Willis has never been better and his repartee with Samuel L. Jackson (who also gives one of the best turns of his career) works incredibly well. Jeremy Irons has a ball as the bad guy and the whole 'Simon Says' game is very well staged. Plus you get all of the violence, fights, car chases, shoot-outs and clever situations that you could hope for in an action film. DIE HARD WITH A VENGEANCE truly is one of the best action films ever made and the kind of film I could sit and watch over and over again, and there are very few of those around.

This third part that brings again another impossible situation results to be a nice buddy movie with stoppable action, thrills, explosions, pursuits and humor. A powerful action thriller with the tough-cookie, wise-cracking cop John McClaine : Bruce Willis, who joins forces with Samuel L Jackson, as a reluctant shopkeeper , to take down villainous people who are planting a series of massive bombs across NYC and especially at the threatened schools plenty of little students . Here McClaine facing off foreign ruthless, high-stakes recruits and their heinous boss, Jeremy Irons, as the brother of of the bad boy, Alan Rickman, who Willis killed in the first film. Along the way MacClane dangerously fleeing from bursting dam waters rushing at him down underground tunnel.Here McClaine, Bruce Willis, is back home in the Big Apple, having another bad day and suffering chaos and destruction, including a breathtaking subway crash and a spectacular flood. Obviously repeats partially the plot of previous entries with references to the former in the screenplay, including his estranged and separated wife, Bonnie Bedelia . While the first outing Die Hard 1988 by John MacTiernan was set at a claustrophobic Los Angeles skycraper and the second Die Hard 2 : Die harder 1990 by Renny Harlin was set at an airport, this third part is set at New York streets. This installment features energetic action and finely acted interpretations from the three leads : Bruce Willis, Samuel L Jackson, Jeremy Irons. Being well accompanied by a nice support cast as Graham Greene, Colleen Camp, Sam Philips, Nick Wyman, and Tony Peck.It packs a colorful cinematography by Peter Menzies, adding an exessive hand-held camerawork and annoying steadicam. As well as rousing and moving musical score by Michael Kamen. This fast, well-done follow-up motion picture was professionally directed by John McTiernan, though is inferior than the first part which he made too. John is a good craftsman who has got a lot of hits, such as : Die Hard, Predator, The hunt for Red October, The 13th warrior, The Thomas Crown affair, Last action hero, ,but also some flops as Nomads, Medicine man, Basic, and Rollerball especially. Rating : 6.5/10. Notable action film. Better than average.

I hadn't seen this is years, but always had a favorable recollection of it. Watching it the other day, though, I was pretty disappointed. It is pretty action-packed, you have to say that for it. But a lot of the jokes don't work, and, though not its fault, the constant bantering on race issues feels very 90s and dated. But flat humor is its fault, as well as, at times, flat drama--especially when we're first getting to know Simon, his whole persona seems quite goofy. The other supporting cast seemed rather weak as well (the police chief for instance). I'd also argue it ran on a bit too long (or maybe I was just getting sleepy). Not to say I hated it, or that it didn't hold my interest for the most part, but I'd expect more from the director of the original Die Hard.

Die Hard With A Vengence is a near-perfect summer movie. This franchise effort is a gleeful no-brainer with nonstop action. It gives some additional perverse pleasure, as we get to watch smartypants Bruce Willis get smacked around for 112 minutes. In this third outing with John McClane, we are faced with yet another mad bomber on the loose. Jeremy Irons plays Simon, a nasty piece of Eurotrash who has a score to settle with Detective McClane. Simon's bombing game comes complete with crafty riddles, which must be solved in a specified time or everything goes boom. McClane has no choice but to play. Along the way, he picks up an unlikely accomplice named Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson), a Harlem shopkeeper. Together they tear all over New York trying to head off disaster. Sure, it's all perfectly preposterous, but DIE HARD 3 has been directed with breathless intensity by John McTiernan, who certainly has a way with wrecking things. Was he very destructive as a child? Loved the spectacular subway crash, John. That hair-raising taxi ride through Central Park wasn't bad, either. Don't forget to fasten your seat belts for this ride.

The movie starts off by re-introducing John McClane, and immediately takes off with non-stop action. Samuel L Jackson has great chemistry with Willis, and they really work with each other. Even thought the movie was made almost 20 years ago, due to the dependence on mainly practical effects, it still looks good. The one major downfall of the movie was the ending. It is too bad, since that is what the viewer will remember. It could have been easily re- mediated if they went with a less typical Hollywood-type ending, and that would also have been in line with everything else in the movie. Also, the water riddle was solved way too easily by John, and the editing of it didn't even show how he randomly arrived at the answer.

Someone calling himself Simon detonates several bombs in the centre of New York City.  He then sets a series of dangerous tasks for Officer John McClane to achieve or he will detonate more.  McClane sets out to meet the demands of the terrorists with bystander Zeus Carver in tow.This is the third in the Die Hard series and it makes an immediate improvement on the second by bringing back the original director John McTiernan.  Here the film doesn't try to repeat the formula of the first film (terrorists/wife/rescue) but instead takes on a whole new plot while still tying it into the first film.  The second movie tried to repeat the first film's plot but set in an airport, here the different angle makes this feel a lot fresher and feel like a movie in itself.  The tie-in to the first film is clever and not too much of a stretch of the imagination - happily this is not the reason for the action itself - instead the terrorist's main aim is the gold held in vaults in the Federal Reserve on Wall Street, but the game with McClane is a special treat.McTiernan was great in the first film, making everything feel tense and claustrophobic.  Here he has the whole of NYC to run across and the camera shows this new found freedom.  In action scenes the camera swings wildly round and zooms into focus on the action.  During scenes set in offices etc containing a lot of dialogue the camera slowly prowls round like it's dieing to rush off to the next action scene.  It's the opposite to the style in the first film and again makes this feels different enough to be a film in it's own right.Usually film series can get a lot of baggage (watch Lethal Weapon 4 for proof), but here all the repeat characters are dropped, even McClane's wife only features as a voice on the phone.  And that works well here and the only characters that are brought back here are McClane (of course) and Hans Gruber (in a flashback).  This frees the film up to basically go where it wants without having to squeeze in old characters the way the second film did.  However it links the films by having Simon Gruber taking supposed revenge for the death of his brother.  The fresh active feel to this movie really gives it life and lifts the series out of the hole that the second film had threatened to put it.The chemistry between Willis and Jackson is great and lends a lot of comedy to the film, there's lot of racial humour between the two and Jackson is more than the "black sidekick" that exists in many films.  Irons continues the fine tradition of English actors playing Hollywood villains and is good for the most.  His ticks and stutters stop him being anywhere near as good as Rickman was in the original role but he's still good.  Willis gets good support from the likes of Graham Greene, Larry Bryggman and Colleen Camp as fellow cops but really him and Jackson carry the show.Some of the scenes are a little forced and the plot doesn't always join together easily (a scene where Willis is fired out of a water pipe just as Jackson happens to drive by is a little too convenient) but many iffy bits can be overlooked if you focus on the action.  The most effective thing that returns from the first film is the musical score.  In the first film the score used variations on Christmas music to dramatic effect, here the score uses music well to add tension and comedy in a different way.  It's difficult to put into words but this effect was missing from the second film.The film has a hatful of nice twists towards the end and the only problem is that the conclusion in Canada doesn't feel like it fits in (the original ending was changed following the Okalahoma bombing) but this is a minor problem in a film that is a great addition to the action packed Die Hard series.

As with any effective action movie, you're glued to the screen even as you goggle at the stupidity of it all. People get shot, sawed in half by wire ropes, blown up, run over by renegade subway trains, electrocuted by helicopters whose rotor blades make a mare's nest of high-tension power cables. I couldn't count the number of exploding fireballs. There are, I think, three maniacal car chases. (It depends on how you define car chase. Is a lone cab bounding at full speed through the woods of Central Park a "car chase"?) It's like watching a Roadrunner cartoon. Bruce Willis is spat out of an aqueduct tunnel by the force of the water, loops through the air, and plops down into a mud puddle unhurt. "Whew," he's likely to say, "what a #@#%!%#@^%!ing close call THAT was!" Samuel Jackson as his unwilling partner matches him step for step, in a plot partly structured along the lines of the old mismatched cop movies that ran out of steam a decade or so ago.Both Willis and Jackson are quite good for reasons most people already will recognize. There's nothing like a blood-covered Willis wisecracking and wincing with real pain as he extracts a piece of shrapnel from his flesh with his own teeth -- unless it's Jackson with his bulging eyes and crackling high voice responding angrily to some racist remark. "Say WHUT?" I see I've kind of skipped much of the plot but it wanders off in several tenuously related directions anyway? Jeremy Irons with a faux German accent is the heavy and he belongs in a different movie. Nobody else registers.You know what it's like? It's like a comic pornographic film. "Debby Does New York." Exciting episode follows exciting episode and they are linked by only the slenderest of narrative threads.Let's see. That makes it a combination skin flick, mismatched cop movie, and Roadrunner cartoon. Hmmmm. Yeah, I guess that about covers it. It's tense, amusing, and filled with stunts. And if you're in the proper mood it's captivating.

Man, I was watching this movie the other day and I can't believe how good this movie is. Even though I liked Die Harder, it lacked the brains of its predecessor. John McTiernan returned to give us an action flick that not only delivers as an action flick but is also quite effective as a thriller.Simon Peter Gruber(Jeremy Irons) is the brother of Hans Gruber who was killed by McClane in the Nakatomi Plaza. He detonates a few bombs in New York City and sends McClane on "Fools Errands" while covering up his real scheme: to steal gold reserves. McClane is saved from an a**kicking by angry mob by Zeus Carver(Samuel L Jackson), a shop owner. They reluctantly team up to play along with Simon's games. They later find out his big scheme all along.Samuel Jackson and Bruce Willis have excellent chemistry together. Plus you have to admire the match up. Zeus Carver has a nationalistic mentality and John McClane is your not-so-average white-bread cop. Despite their differences they still get together to handle the same goal. Zeus despite his prejudices was still a factor in helping McClane solve those riddles which were more clever than the riddles that were given to you by Jim Carrey's Riddler in Batman Forever.Jeremy Irons is magnificent as Simon Peter Gruber. He's definitely one of the best movie villains in history. His plan showed a clever genius absent from movie villains nowadays. Quite possibly the last serious role that Jeremy Irons had. Tell the truth, can you look at him with a straight face after he starred in Dungeons and Dragons? I think not.I like the pacing of this movie too. It keeps you glued to the screen and provides a thrill ride from start to finish. Im kind of surprised That everybody knows that its better than Die Hard 2. Plus this movie has lowest score of all Die Hard movies on Rottentomatoes. Shows you just how much these snooty consensus followers really know. The fact that this movie was outsold by Batman Forever in the box office shows you exactly where the intelligence of the movie-going was heading. Straight down the toilet bowl and they've been sinking further into the sewer since then.If you're looking for an action/thriller that doesn't disappoint you cant go wrong with Die Hard With A Vengeance. It has great acting, a superb villain, a good plot and some engaging action sequences. More effective than what passes for Thriller these days and is easily the most underrated action sequel of all time.

Well, if you enjoyed the 1988 "Die Hard" and the 1990 "Die Hard 2" movies, then you most certainly will also enjoy the 1995 third movie in the franchise "Die Hard: With a Vengeance".The storyline as delivered by writer Jonathan Hensleigh proved to be innovative for the franchise, while it kept the very essence and spirit of the franchise at heart. So "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" was a welcomed addiction to the action franchise.Once again does Bruce Willis return to reprise the role as John McClane, the police officer with an attitude and a knack for getting himself into precarious situations. And this third movie also has Jeremy Irons and Samuel L. Jackson on the cast list, both of whom definitely added something unique to the movie and to the franchise as a whole. Jeremy Irons proved to be right up there alongside with Alan Rickman in terms of portraying an interesting villain in this particular franchise."Die Hard: With a Vengeance" has an abundance of action, just as the previous two movies did, so you are definitely in for a treat. But at the same time, then "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" proves to have more to its storyline than just action and that stereotypical one-man-against-an-army-of-bad-guys feel to it.I will say that the storyline told in "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" was an enjoyable one, and there were some nice twists to the plot along the way, which made for a non-linear and somewhat unpredictable storyline. Not only is it an entertaining story, but director John McTiernan also manages to get the audience dragged in and feeling like they are right there alongside McClane and Zeus.If you haven't already seen the 1995 movie "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" from director John McTiernan, it is about time you do so, as this is an entertaining and enjoyable action movie. My rating of "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" settles on a well-deserved 7 out of 10 stars.

"Die Hard: With a Vengeance" is a full-blooded action vehicle; it is a smart one, too, because its filmmakers realize the ol' one-man-army-trapped-in-an-area routine can't last long. So they have changed the technique to a game of revenge; cat-and-mouse. Some could call it smarter than its predecessors; and on a level as a thriller I must admit it is more intense. It is a lot better than the 1990 Renny Harlin actioner "Die Hard 2: Die Harder." But on terms of fun, you can't beat the original.John McTiernan, who brought us "Predator," "The 13th Warrior" and "Die Hard," returned to end this series on a high note. Of course, like all sagas, "Die Hard" is far from over, with another sequel due to be released summer 2004. But until then, we can look to "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" as the end-all to the overall excellent John McClane trilogy.The third film opens up where nothing left off; McClane (Bruce Willis) is on the streets of NYC when a man who calls himself "Simon" blows up a Manhattan department store, and then orders McClane to stand in Harlem with a sandwich board that says...well...something you wouldn't want to be wearing in Harlem. After a convenience store owner named Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson) saves McClane, Simon orders both men to run around New York City and do Simon Says-type-games. It's all good fun, and a step away from the original film. Which can be good or bad.Soon McClane finds out that "Simon" is really the brother of Hans Gruber (Alan Rickman) from the first film, and that "Simon" is out for revenge against McClane (or is he?), and he will stop at nothing to kill McClane. But, of course, being a madman, he plays mind games with John McClane first. And the simon says mind games are tense, taught and action-packed.It's hard to compare something like this to the original for one major reason: It is nothing like the original. The original was about a lone man fighting off a million guys, Rambo-style. But what saved it from becoming another average action spectacular was the great dialogue, non-stop SMART action sequences, and engaging performences by all aboard the project. Fast-forward two years later and you've got a replicant copy of the first film set in Dulles airport in Washington, D.C. But in all respect, "Die Hard: With a Vengeance" is not recycled. Its technique is new, and it almost seems as if it is not a sequel to the other "Die Hard" films. Which is probably not too odd, seeing that the script, originally titled "Simon Says" (no, not the Dennis Rodman one), was actually a sequel to "Lethal Weapon." Of course, moderations were made after the "Die Hard" series bought out the script, but the character of Zeus was probably Danny Glover, and John McClane was probably Mel Gibson. Thinkabouddit.Bruce Willis is still John McClane. This film takes his character into a bit of a darker realm; McClane now has an alcohol problem, and his wife has left him again. Man, you'd think after having your life saved TWICE by the same guy that MAYBE you should stick with him. In fact, we don't even see McClane's wife (Bonnie Bedalia) in this film at all. Notta. Zip. Although we are led to believe they will hook up again at the end. Just wait until the next film, I saw.Samuel L. Jackson adds some flair to the film, taking the movie into a more cop-buddy dimension ("Lethal Weapon"). Jackson's character is a racist, and it's a bit odd to see a black racist in a film. It's usually those nasty white fellas. :) I liked Jackson's character, because it provides for dialogue outlet on McClane's behalf, and sets the film up for some very funny sequences. The character interaction is a lot stronger here than it was in "Die Hard 2: Die Harder.""Die Hard: With a Vengeance" is hard to compare to the original because it is so very different. But the bottom line is that this sequel is much better than "Die Hard 2: Die Harder," but a step down from "Die Hard." But seeing how different it is, you might think it is better than both the films. It really depends on your preferences.I give this solid action film a solid rating of 4/5 stars - an all-around solid action sequel. Solid fun.

This movie begs the question of, "What makes a Die Hard movie?" Each Die Hard movie is based on a book, but they are all from different series. This means that the original screenplays, were not written with John McClain in mind. This one, for example, was originally called "Simon Says". Before this film, most people would associate a "Die Hard" film as an action film that takes place almost entirely in one location. This is why so many Die Hard knock offs would be defined by where it was happening, on a bus, a plane, a mountain or a tunnel. This time around, McClain has a full city to roam around in. Another aspect would be that of Christmas. Both of the previous entries took place during Christmas, this one only makes the occasional reference to the holiday. So how does this film even consider itself Die Hard?But this film has 3 important aspects that make it feel genuinely "Die Hard".#1. John McLain takes a beating. Die Hard is known for its visceral action, and this one brings it to life. McClain isn't winning because he is the smartest or strongest, he is just the guy that happens to show up. And by the end of the movie, you do feel like he has gone through some of the worst stuff and is just still standing by sheer will power.#2 A memorable villain. Much like Hans Gruber before him, Simon, as played by Jeremy Irons, is an absolute delight. He has the right level of camp and menace. He feels like he is relishing every scene of villainy he is doing. But at the same time, is still nice enough to throw a man some aspirin if he has a headache. It almost feels like he is playing the live action version of Scar, and what could be wrong with that.#3 John McTiernan is back baby! The legendary director has returned and has not missed a beat. He knows how to best frame an action scene so that our heroes feel like they are in the most peril. He is able to elevate the material to something above and beyond."Die Hard 3" may not be a game changer the same way the first film was, but it is still a really good action film. My main complaints would be the bickering between Jackson and Willis gets on my nerves and the ending is a bit of a letdown.Simon says, give it a watch.

I'm not sure why some people dismiss this as a weaker film in the Die Hard series. Obviously the first one was incredible and nothing can ever really live up to it in my mind, but this one (the third one) is at least as good as the second Die Hard film, and they are both definitely a million times better than the awful Die Hard films that have come since the first three.Great action, lots of good humor, good acting. This movie has it all, even a fantastic villain. Plus Samuel L. Jackson in a supporting role. This is a great action movie.

John McClane (Bruce Willis) has fallen on hard times. A bomber (Jeremy Irons) demands that McClane play a game and the NYPD recalls him back to work. In one game, he's helped by a good Samaritan Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson). The two go off on a high intensity scavenger hunt.The fact that he's called in by name means that this one veers off from the formula from the start. The first two had him alone in the wrong place at the wrong time surprising the bad guys. This one he's paired up, demanded by the bad guy to play a game running across NY. It feels like a different franchise. Where's the family? They've thrown out the formula.Director John McTiernan returns to do a big action extravaganza. He follows the rule of sequels by making a bigger movie. Jeremy Irons is a great bad guy, but I would prefer Bruce Willis to be a lone wolf. Nevertheless Sam Jackson is always a great choice. If this wasn't a Die Hard movie, it would be just another brainless action thriller.

John McTiernan returned to direct this third entry that sees Bruce Willis returning as Police Officer John McClane, who is suspended from the force and separated from his wife. To make things worse for poor John, he is the target of retribution by terrorist Simon Gruber(played by Jeremy Irons) brother of Hans from the first film, is forcing him to play his games all over the city, or he will detonate more bombs, though it turns out he has an entirely different motivation in mind, which McClane is determined to stop. Action-packed but disappointing sequel has a plot that doesn't hold up to scrutiny, and the stunts this time around defy credibility. Poor John McClane has been through enough!