I originally wasn't too interested in the Halloween franchise of slasher movies because I originally thought that they looked like a rip-off of Friday the Thirteenth. It should also be noted that when I thought that I was maybe eight or nine and didn't really understand cinematic history as much as I do nowadays and I didn't know that Halloween came before Friday the 13th.About a year and a half ago I took an awesome class on the evolution of Horror Films by the decade and, of course, John Carpenter's movie was on the viewing list. After watching it on iTunes along with the Blumhouse Legacy sequel by David Gordon Green, I'm hooked on this series and have just recently finished up collecting all the films on Blu-Ray. Now, it's time to watch and review each film, one by one.For those who don't know the story of the first movie, it is a slasher film about an escaped mental patient who is an absolute murderous psychopath and who returns for some mysterious reason to his hometown of Haddonfield to begin a killing spree. The patient, named Michael Myers, is relentlessly pursued by the team-up of the Haddonfield sheriff, Sheriff Brackett, and Myers' psychologist, Dr. Sam Loomis, while Michael stalks a trio of female high school students on Halloween night.From the first sequence involving Michael's infamous first kill, this movie is incredibly innovative with the camerawork. I believe this is the first horror film to introduce the POV camera method, actually. Then when Michael is stalking poor lovelorn Laurie Strode throughout the daytime, it just gets creepier. Finally, when the night falls and the blood starts to flow, it gets nightmarish.Acting-wise, the movie is well-cast. I've really only seen Donald Pleasance as Blofeld in 'You Only Live Twice' and the lawyer guy in Disney's original 'Witch Mountain' movie, but I love him as Sam Loomis. Jamie Lee Curtis is pretty cute and innocent in the role of Laurie, but has a little bit of sass and coolness just under the surface. Charles Cypher does a good job as a small-town sheriff stretched thin on a tough night for law enforcement in general. And Nick Castle (who has recently returned for the Blumhouse trilogy) owns it as Michael Myers/The Shape.Besides the incredible camerawork and enjoyable acting, what really sells this film is John Carpenter's brilliant synthesizer-techno score. Aside from the iconic main theme, there are other great tracks that enhance the terror of various scenes and add to the spookiness as well. Most notably with the opening and closing scenes, I have noticed.As much as I want to find something wrong with this film, I think there really aren't any major problems with it. It would have been interesting if John Carpenter had been able to go through with his original plan for the sequels with each film being a contained and different story that has no relation to the previous Halloween film(s), much like Twilight Zone or Tales from the Crypt. Other than that, I think John Carpenter's Halloween is deserving of the praise that it gets. It really is a masterpiece of terror and horror.Pros:
Incredible Camerawork in combination with Pacing and EditingCool acting by a bunch of interesting actors who deliver some great scenesJohn Carpenter's synthesizer score is one of the best scary movie scores ever.The finale is probably one of the best ending scenes I have ever seen. And not just for a Horror film.Cons:
The sequels, even the Blumhouse ones, do kind of dismember (for lack of better terminology) the mystique of this film's story by giving Michael a twisted motive or two for why he kills.Final Word:
Way better contender than William Friedkin's The Exorcist for the scariest film ever. Though Stanley Kubrick's The Shining comes pretty darn close, even with it being so inaccurate to the original text.Stay Scared!

I have just recently been through a stage where I wanted to see why it is that horror films of the 90's can't hold a candle to 70's and 80's horror films. I have been very public in this forum about the vileness of films like The Haunting and Urban Legend and such. I feel that they (and others like them) don't know what true horror is. And it bothered me to the point where it made me go to my local video store and rent some of the classic horror films. I already own all the Friday's so I rented The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, the original Nightmare On Elm Street, Jaws, The Exorcist, Angel Heart, The Exorcist and Halloween. Now the other films are classics in their own right but it is here that I want to tell you about Halloween. Because what Halloween does is perhaps something no other film in the history of horror film can do, and that is it uses subtle techniques, techniques that don't rely on blood and gore, and it uses these to scare the living daylights out of you. I was in a room by myself with the lights off and as silly as I knew it was, I wanted to look behind me to see if Michael Myers was there. No movie that I have seen in the last ten years has done that to me. No movie.John Carpenter took a low budget film and he scared a generation of movie goers. He showed that you don't need budgets in the 8 or 9 figures to evoke fear on an audience. Because sometimes the best element of fear is not what actually happens, but what is about to happen. What was that shadow? What was that noise upstairs? He knows that these are the ways to scare someone and he uses every element of textbook horror that I think you can use. I even think he made up some of his own ideas and these should be ideas that people use today. But they don't. No one uses lighting and detail to provoke scares, they use special effects and rivers of blood. And it is just not the same. You can't be scared by a giant special effect that makes loud noises and jumps out of a wall. It's the moments when the killer is lurking, somewhere, you just don't know where, that scare you. And Halloween succeeds like no other film in this endeavor.In 1963 a young Micael Myers kills his sister with a large butcher knife and then spends the next 15 years of his life, silently locked up in an institute. As Loomis ( his doctor) says to Sheriff Brackett, " I spent eight years trying to reach him and then another seven making sure that he never gets out, because what I saw behind those eyes was pure e-vil. " That sets up the manic and relentless idea of a killer that will stop at nothing to get what he wants. And all he wants here is to kill Laurie. No one know why he wants to kill her, but he does.( Halloween II continues the story quite well )What Carpenter has done here is taken a haunting score, mendacious lighting techniques and wrote and directed a tightly paced masterpiece of horror. There is one scene that has to be described. And that is the scene where Annie is on her way to pick up Paul. She goes to the car and tries to open it. Only then does she realize that she has left her keys in the house. She gets them, comes back out and inadvertently opens the car door without using the keys. The audience picks up on this but she doesn't. She is too busy thinking about Paul. When she sits down, she notices that the windows are fogged up. She is puzzled and starts to wipe away the mist, and then Myers strikes, from the back seat. This is such a great scene because it pays attention to detail. We know what is happening and Annie doesn't. But it's astute observations that Carpenter made that scared the hell out of movie goers in 1978 and beyond. Halloween uses blurry images of a killer standing in the background, it has shadows ominously gliding across a wall, dark rooms, creepy and haunting music, a sinister story told hauntingly by Donald Pleasance and a menacing, relentless killer. My advice to film makers in our day and age is to study Halloween. It should be the blue print for what scary movies are all about. After all, Carpenter followed in Hitchcock's steps, maybe director's should follow in his.Halloween personifies everything that scares us. If you are tired of all the mindless horror films that don't know the difference between evil and cuteness, then Halloween is a film that should be seen. It won't let you down. I enjoy being scared, I don't know why, but I do. But nothing has scared me in the 90's, except maybe one film ( Wes Craven's final Nightmare ). If you enjoy beings scared, then Halloween is one that you should see. And if you have already seen it a hundred times, go and watch it again, back to back with a film like Urban Legend. Urban Legend will have you enticed at all the pretty faces in the movie. Halloween will have you frozen with fear, stuck in your seat, not wanting to move. Now tell me, what horror film would you rather watch?And just to follow up after seeing Zombie's version, it makes you appreciate this that much more. This is a classic by definition. Zombie bastardized his version, but it doesn't take away from the brilliance of this one.

I was 20 back in 1978, and saw this on opening weekend.  I knew nothing of it, and after growing up on the old Hammer films, followed by a period of almost nothing, this was quite a nice surprise. It really worked! Had me checking the back seat in cars, gave me a sinking feeling when I lost my keys, etc.  The low death toll and relative lack of blood, as compared to subsequent slasher films, has me really admiring how effectively it created the atmosphere & suspense that kept me on edge, and made me jump at the right places. I certainly don't jump any more at it, but I do have fun remembering what it was like watching it when the now-cliches were fresh & new.  I laugh at the 'horror' flicks of the 30s & 40s, but when they were new, I bet they were something. And I bet in another 20 years, today's toddlers will find Scream/IKWYDLS, et al, to be tame and passe too, at least compared to what they'll (& I'll) be watching then!I'm surprised at the number of people half my age who wish they could've been around to see this film when it was brand new!Looking back, Halloween probably scared me more when it was new, than other horror movies have,when they were new.  Horror films are indebted to Halloween for breaking some new ground, and I can't wait for the next horror film that will do something on a similar scale.

The best slasher ever made, and arguably one of the best horror movies ever made. John Carpenter is a genius. Amazing direction, an atmosphere built upon suspense and terror, effective use of first person pov shots. Immensely influential this movie birthed the best slasher villain, the best final girl, and the best soundtrack/theme. Above average acting and great performances from Jaime lee Curtis and Donald Pleasence (RIP). Although Texas Chainsaw and Black Christmas came before, this was the blueprint that sent the 80's into a slasher frenzy.

We're going back to 1978 to one of the original slashers, Halloween. This is a movie that has not only continued to be a constant watch around the autumn season, but has inspired several imitators hoping to capture that same success. I can't blame them as Halloween was made on a very low budget (it might have been lower then John Carpenter's first film Assault on Precinct 13), yet generated a major profit. You have to give it credit that while it was not the first slasher movie ever, it was the first to be centered around Halloween. What's interesting is despite the spooky surrounding of the holiday, Halloween was the first to set a horror story on that day. I think that similar to why we don't see Christmas settings in horror stories, Halloween too has a sense on innocence that even represents a right of passage with most children with trick or treating, watching scary movies, and of course, carving pumpkins. Having a dark character like Michael Myers suddenly come into the fold takes away the intentional fun scare to make way for the true scares. So is Halloween the classic that everyone says it is? Welllet's look at the story.After a very suspenseful opening that shows a young Michael Myers murdering his older sister, he is sent to a mental hospital where his doctor Samuel Loomis (played by Donald Pleasence) looks to keep him there as he says "I saw nothing but evil in his eyes". One evening before Halloween, Loomis sees that several inmates have escaped, including Michael Myers, who has stolen a car to make his way home to Haddonfield, Illinois. In that same town on the same block, teenager Laurie Strode (played by Jamie Lee Curtis) is getting ready for a typical night of babysitting her neighbors child Tommy while her friends are going to do the same. But unlike her friends like Lynda, Annie and Bob who want to make it a night of romance, Laurie is single, and thus more focused on being Tommy's friends and making it a nice Halloween. But once the sun sets and the jack o lanterns light up, Myers has made up a costume from a boiler suit and a mask and is heading back to his old neighborhood where Laurie is.People are constantly phrasing Halloween as the essential John Carpenter film and one of the greatest horror movies of all time. I'm sorry, but I find Halloween overrated. Is it bad? No, not at all. In fact there are some great elements. Speaking of which, let's get into the atmosphere. The beginning, which is all shown through Michael's perspective, is a masterpiece in horror staging and setting the mood to let you know that this kid isn't turning back. He will come out deranged. The rest of the time, you only see him with that mask, giving him the same idea that was occurring with Street Thunder in Assault on Precinct 13; that he's a force rather then a person. Jamie Lee Curtis is perfect as Laurie, with a combined sense of tension along with a bookish look that makes her the best choice for this kind of teenager. Donald Pleasance is often regarded with playing the authority figure, but few point out that he has that same sense of unpredictability and crazy that would have rubbed off given his job of watching Michael Myers. It's too bad that aside from the three leads, I found non of the other characters, even the child actors, that convincing. Laurie's friends especially only seem to exist to give the movie a longer running time.It probably has to do with the script, which aside from some good lines and setup, is not that good. If you listen to the way the teens talk, they seem too dumb for the sake of the plot. Even the adult characters just seem like stock cops and stock teachers that may have given this movie more depth. Without it, your stuck knowing whose very likely to get axed off while we wait patiently for Michael to eventually get to Laurie. Even the way this movie is shot is mixed. Many of the night shots seem clumsy and rushed which I can understand some of the reasoning (there are great moments with the way Michael Myers enters through the dark), but creates an lazy look when compared to how dark was shot in later John Carpenter films. I'd say that out of the things he did for the movie, John Carpenter's score may be the best as it is chilling and of course, has a memorable synth sound that would be his trademark. I'll give this six Michael Myers masks out of ten. The setup and situation seems ready to go, but I really wanted better characters out of the teens and a bit more unpredictability with the plot. Wouldn't it have been more interesting if one of the kids had gotten killed? At least there are a lot of elements that can make it entertaining in some areas. This is one horror movie I don't come back to that often, but I understand why a lot do. Take a look and see if this is one Halloween worth celebrating.

I've already grown desensitized by so many other horror stories.
Older movies dont have the acting, sound work, or cinematography as modern movies.
So, I didn't find it scary or all that entertaining.
I can see how it would have been scary to those living a sheltered late 70s life though.
I understand that it is a classic and it was interesting to see so many cliche scenes borrowed by many movies that have followed though.
Oh, and he kills a dog in it. Not cool, man. Not cool.

My personal favorite horror film. From the lengthy first tracking shot to the final story twist, this is Carpenter's masterpiece.Halloween night 1963, little Michael Meyers murders his older sister. All-hallows-eve 1978, Michael escapes from Smith's Grove sanitarium. Halloween night, Michael has come home to murder again.The story is perfectly simple, Michael stalks and kills babysitters. No bells or whistles, just the basics. It's Carpenter's almost over-powering atmosphere of dread that generates the tension. Like any great horror film, events are telegraphed long in advance, yet they still seem to occur at random, never allowing the audience to the chance to second guess the film.The dark lighting, the long steady-cam shots, and (most importantly) that damn eerie music create the most claustrophobic and uncomfortable scenes I have yet to see in film. There is a body count, but compared to the slew of slashers after this it's fairly small. That and most of the murders are nearly bloodless. The fear is not in death, but in not knowing.The acting is roundelay good. PJ Soles provides much of the films limited humor (and one of the best deaths), Nancy Loomis turns in a decent performance and then there is the young (at the time) Jamie Leigh-Curtis. Her performance at first seems shy and un-assured, yet you quickly realize that it is perfect for the character, who is herself shy and un-assured and not at all prepared for what she is to face. And of course there is the perfectly cast Donald Pleasence as the determined (perhaps a little unstable) Dr. Sam Loomis. Rest in peace Mr. Pleasence.If the film has a detrimental flaw, it would be the passage of time. Since the release of this film so many years ago nearly countless clones, copies, rip-offs, and imitators have come along and stolen (usually badly) the films best bits until nearly everything about it has become familiar. Combined with the changes for audience expectations and appetites, one finds much of the films raw power diluted. To truly appreciate it in this day and age, it must be viewed as it once was, as something unique.Never the less, I have no reservation with highly recommending this film to anyone looking for a good, scary time. Highest Reguards.10/10.

That mask. Wow, is that mask scary. The same can be said about the music. Even 40 years later it completely holds up in every way-it's iconic, it sounds great, it's scary and it's instantly recognizable. Amazingly, John Carpenter wrote and performed the music despite claiming that he cannot write a single note. Before we see any part of the movie, we hear the music. Instantly, we feel unsettled. Then, watching through first-person stalker cam perspective and through the eyes of a Halloween mask, we observe a young boy peep on his sister then murder her. Fast forward 15 years and this young boy, Michael Myers, has grown into a man while living in a mental hospital, never once speaking a word. As if summoned by some evil power, he breaks out and travels to his home town of Haddonfield on Halloween. After breaking out and encountering people in the outside world, Michael still never says a word. It's another inspired filmmaking choice. Hearing his voice would humanize him in some way, instead all we hear is his heavy breathing. Why Michael returned to his hometown is unclear, as is everything about Michael. That's brilliance of this movie-we never find out why Michael killed his sister, we never find out why he escaped the hospital and we never find out why he continues to kill. We don't need to learn his reasons. No motive is scarier. Also scary, he's human. He's not some monster with superpowers (if you ignore the sequels, like you should), he's just a severely disturbed person. Think about that. That means this story is something that could actually happen in any American small town. His victims were seemingly random, so they could be anyone. No one is safe. Although, as I just mentioned, his killings are random, he does seem to take issue with people having sex. This started the now famous horror trope that characters who have sex are as good as dead. This movie also popularizes the horror staple of victims who consistently make dumb decisions. Stop dropping the knife! Stop assuming he's dead! It's maddening. Another aspect of the movie that stood out to me is its surprising lack of violence. There's virtually no blood or gore. Michael mostly strangles his victims. He uses his knife too, of course, but the killings aren't terribly graphic. It's refreshing change of pace from the excessive violence in modern slashers.While Michael may seem invincible since he survives two stabbings and multiple gun shot wounds, he is not flawless. Upon my latest re-watch, I noticed how much he struggles with walking. Michael Myers is a hall of fame level killer, but he's a below average walker.This likely a deliberate choice by director John Carpenter. Not only does Michael's slow walk build suspense, it also lends itself perfectly to the first-person camera shots. The patient, measured movements give him an eerie feel. He's lurking. We see his lurking figure in many forms, each equally brilliant in its execution. Sometimes we see his outline as a shadow. Sometimes we see him ease into the corner of the frame behind a victim. Other times we see a distant shot of a house of character, then Michael partially steps in frame near the camera. Carpenter expertly mixes foreground and background in his shots to make Michael just far enough away that the characters don't see him but the audience does.The movie builds and builds and builds. It's definitely scary from the opening scene, but it grows continuously scarier as we see the extent of Michael's killing spree. All the while, jump scares are sparsely used and are never fake. What I mean by that is when the music jars viewers, it's because Michael appears. The music never blares for fake scares, like when a cat runs across screen or a friend knocks on a door, which is annoying trend in recent horror films. The only scary part of this film is Michael. Fortunately, he's plenty scary to carry the load. 'Halloween' is considered an ageless horror masterpiece. After re-watching it recently, I can clearly see why that is the case.

I didn't watch these '70s and '80s horror movies like "Halloween" until the mid 1990s when I watched every VHS I could get hold of, so a film like this looked pretty tame to what I was already used to seeing by the '90s. However, what this film offers (see below) has some real value, and has a major lesson to learn to the people who make movies..Comparing horror series that were both popular in the 1980s, I did not find it anywhere near as entertaining as the "Nightmare On Elm Street" horror series. Maybe I was too old by the time I finally saw this, but I appreciated the humor "Freddie Krueger" provided as the main character in those Elm Street stories. A little humor, sometimes, is nice relief in a suspenseful horror flick.That's not to say Halloween wasn't worth a look, especially with young Jamie Lee Curtis making her film debut. And, like many films with sequels, I found this first Halloween as the best of all of them.Also on the positive side, it's nice to see a modern-day (post '60s) horror flick without all the blood and gore. The writers here were smart enough to play on our fears, not having gross body parts flung in our face. In other words, suspense is the name of the game here, something filmmakers did effectively for years in the classic era of movies. It seems a lot of that has been replaced with shock today. Young filmmakers who are into horror could learn a lot studying this movie.

I remember hearing about Halloween when I was in the fifth grade. A couple of friends told me how cool it was and I relished over having the privilege of sharing their opportunity to see R rated Horror. But the movie to me was nothing special. The hype immensely outweighed its value and I was quite frankly, disappointed. Sure there are some chilling movements and usage of slow motion and antics with camera angles. But the final result was pretty stupid.The killer falls from the window after having been shot by a 6 round pistol and is then missing. Donald Pleasance gives a look of shock and anguish and glosses his eyes over the screen. The premonition is "There will be a sequel", and then some and then some. Gag me.Jamie Lee Curtis is nothing but a drab chick that panics and falls repeatedly when being chased. P.J. Soles is an equally annoying chick with a dimwitted boyfriend. You can only enjoy the deliberately slow and banal moments of their demise. Donald Pleasance is the only real actor here and it's the expression in his eyes and intensity of his voice that carries this slow and plodding plot line.The killer to me was very disappointing. Watching a slow, plodding mental case in a dumb mask wasn't scary enough.I am one of the select few who thought this movie was overrated and I can think of numerous, maybe hundreds of horror films better and scarier than Halloween. I can even think of films not under the horror genre scarier and more suspenseful than Halloween.Case closed.

I'm not sure how much there is to say about this undisputed horror classic that hasn't been said already but here goes: John Carpenter's influential slasher movie is a superb example of low-budget film making. Despite being made on the cheap, with home-made synthesiser music from Carpenter and a lead of relative unknowns, HALLOWEEN still stands firm today as the pinnacle of the slasher genre. Many films have since tried to imitate the look and feel of this movie but all have failed, lacking skills in expertise film-making and instead preferring to show torrents of blood and gristle in an attempt to shock/disgust the audience instead of really frightening them.The film's opening, with the P.O.V. shots from a killer as he goes about the murder of his own sister, may recall similar moments in BLACK Christmas but they are used far more effectively and copiously throughout the film, really putting us into the evil mind of the killer as he stares impassively at the people he is about to kill. The film is light on plot, with all of the events taking place within 20 hours; Myers escapes from the hospital, is pursued to Haddonfield by Dr Loomis, and begins to murder a bunch of teenagers. That's all there is to it. So simple, yet so effective, the film's casual simplicity is what draws you into the movie: the first half an hour is deceptively slow, introducing all the lead characters and inserting lots of little foreboding shocks and scares like the ace scenes where Laurie notices Myers watching her from behind a hedge or clothesline.From then on, there are a protracted number of stalk and slash sequences, all played out slowly with lots of build-up and a sudden resolution as the victim is killed (apart from the finale, which turns into a game of cat and mouse between Laurie and Myers). Carpenter's camera-work is wonderful and unsettling, remaining totally unpredictable throughout, and his tinkly music score has been much imitated as well but never equalled. The main theme tune is an instantly recognisable and hauntingly atmospheric score that beats any rival tunes from the main studio guys.The cast all do their darndest to make the film work, and succeed. Jamie Lee Curtis stands out as tough but human heroine Laurie, forced to face the evil head on and do her best to fight it, and found herself typecast for the next four years as a result of her efforts. Nancy Loomis and P. J. Soles are also good and realistic as everyday teenagers who unexpectedly meet their maker on that fatal Halloween night. The only really familiar face in the cast is Donald Pleasence as Dr Loomis, Myers' obsessed psychiatrist who has come to believe that his patient is pure evil and cannot be stopped or cured. Incredibly the role was originally written for Christopher Lee! However, Pleasence, always an undervalued horror actor I believe, is excellent as Loomis, going way over the top ("his eyes... the devil's eyes!") - he may be nuttier than the killer he's after! Seriously, Loomis plays a pivotal role and created such a memorable character that he too was forced to return in sequel after sequel with Michael.The key secret to Carpenter's success is that he doesn't use gore as a method to scare the audience, realising that bloody prosthetics don't create real terror; instead, he relies on old fashioned jump-cuts, sudden bursts of music and shocking surprises, like characters stepping out of the darkness on to the screen unexpectedly. With at least twenty such scenes occurring within the film, this really is a frightening one to watch and not recommended for those with a nervous disposition (I remember watching it one night alone in the house as a kid... couldn't sleep that night... too busy looking and listening out for Myers). The finale is the best part of the film, with growing horror as Laurie realises that Myers may be an indestructible foe after all as he repeatedly rises from the seemingly dead to attack her one more time.Although by now, many of the scares and methods that Carpenter uses have been diluted by the sequels that followed and the legions of imitators, HALLOWEEN still packs a punch and is miles ahead of any modern-day competition, such as SCREAM, which becomes over-complicated and too slick, self-referential and self-indulgent for its own good. What we have here is a simple tale of good vs evil, a classic horror story of the boogeyman coming home to kill, and one of the best horrors ever made!

Arguably the first Senseless Knife-Kill flick; arguably the first "serial murder" movie mislabeled as "horror"; arguably the only movie to ever use a Captain Kirk mask to scare people. Intentionally rather than accidentally.HALLOWEEN is historical; like Friday THE 13TH and a handful of seminal horror movies that spawned an unstoppable tide of sequels, it has entered into world consciousness. Unlike Friday THE 13TH and many of those other seminal horror "classics," HALLOWEEN is actually a reasonably good movie.After all, John Carpenter writes and directs. And HALLOWEEN features two actual actors in its leading roles: Donald Pleasance, who intimidated everyone with his experience and British accent, and Jamie Lee Curtis, in her feature film debut, disguising her striking man-features with a luscious mop of brown locks and displaying a conviction and commitment to her pear-shaped bellbottoms that outshone all her idiotic teen co-stars.HALLOWEEN has nothing to do with the American-celebrated night of October 31st, Hallows Eve; it's just a nice night to kill teenagers having sex.15 years ago, young Michael Myers in a clown mask knifed his sister and was sent to a mental institution, where he was treated by psychiatrist, Dr. Loomis (Pleasence). An adult now, Myers escapes, with Loomis hot on his trail, tracking him to the tree-lined suburb of Haddonfield, Illinois, his old home.In the script, Myers was known only as The Shape, as Steadicams portrayed his Point-Of-View, Carpenter not allowing us many clear views of the psychopath whom Loomis describes as "pure evil" - which is a simple way of getting out of any real character motivation. It's the movie version of "Because I said so." So Myers can kill anyone at any time for any reason - because he's Pure Evil, see? The stoic flesh-colored mask he wears is actually a spraypainted Captain Kirk mask - ahh, now that's Pure Evil.Myers stalks Lori (Curtis) for no reason (maybe cos he's "Pure Evil"), until Halloween night when he starts killing teens in his hometown for no reason. Even Lori's ultimate Running and Screaming relationship with Myers only comes about because he kills her bad actor teen friends across the road and she investigates in her pear bellbottoms.In the late 70s, in theaters across the nation, HALLOWEEN's iconic, chilling music guaranteed girlfriends would be grabbing their dates in the dark, instead of the other way round, and I'm sure the jump-scares gave teen boys valid reason to spill sodas over their date's bra-less blouses. And offer to wash them back at his place...Kids, have you learned nothing from this movie? Teen sex could get you killed. (Of course, the Puritans who run America needed an even stronger wrongful message that "sex causes death," so they invented AIDS.) Ironically, the man who was the inspiration for Dr. Evil saves the day, Ernst Stavro Blofeld.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania).

I have mixed feelings about this film. I like it and I've seen it around five or six times, but there's something about "Halloween" that I find dissatisfying. Incorrectly regarded as the first slasher ever made, "Halloween" started a trend of low budget films about mysterious killers wearing a mask and murdering young people with no specific reasons. The truth is that "Halloween" changed horror movies for good and served as an influence for many horror films that came after. While "Black Christmas" came four years before this, and it is one of my favorite slashers, I think it is less known, because we never get to see the killer, while "Halloween" gives us a very frightening looking villain, capable of causing horror to the most experienced horror fans. Michael Myer's design is actually very modest: a white mask with black eyes, a blue overall and a big kitchen knife that make him very sinister, without having to appeal to something more brutal and explicit, like some of the slasher killers that came after him. Michael is a very well designed horror villain and he is probably one of my favorites too (keeping in mind that this isn't the only "Halloween" film). So what is it about "Halloween" that doesn't quite do it for me?My main problem with "Halloween" is that I find it a little bit slow (there, I said it!) and I'm sure this is the main reason why other people dislike it as well, which automatically causes avid "Halloween" fans to accuse the detractors of only being capable of appreciating horror films with a lot of cheap-scares. I actually don't have a problem with slow films, but I feel like most of this film features the main character going on about her business, chatting with her silly friends about high school crushes and stuff, and we occasionally see Michael Myers appearing here and there. I do realize that this is intended to create a frightening atmosphere and it actually works well, but after a while, I find it a little bit tedious.Those who want gory murders will have to skip this film. While I think gore is not always a requirement, I would normally expect the murders to have some kind of shock value and be disturbing, even if we don't get to see a single drop of blood (it can happen). Most of the murders are rather predictable and what we see on the screen isn't too disturbing or shocking, at least not by nowadays' standards. Fortunately, the music during the murders is so powerful and fear-provoking that it makes up for the lack of brutality. For the life of me, I can't understand how "Halloween" got an R-rating in so many countries. Not only there's barely any blood in it, but also, the nudity is very naïf and harmless. Towards the last twenty minutes, "Halloween" displays a lot of suspense, mainly with Laurie Strode (the lead) being chased by the sinister Michael Myers. This part of the film is not only full of tension due to the fact that a merciless killer is out to get an innocent high school girl for no apparent reason, but also because two small kids are in danger and it's the lead girl's implied responsibility to protect them. The confrontation between Michael and Laurie is chilling, as the killer is apparently impossible to kill and Laurie, in all her nervousness, goes out of her way to make the worst possible choices when it comes to escaping the lunatic. While I find the night scenario and the dark in general to be fitting for a horror film about a mysterious killer, I find the excessive dark to also make it very difficult to fully appreciate what's going on at times. The acting in "Halloween" is very solid, which is unlikely to find in slasher films, or at least the ones that came out during and after the eighties. The main three actresses are Jamie Lee Curtis (unknown back then), P. J. Soles and Nancy Loomis, while English actor Donald Pleasence plays Detective Sam Loomis. I have no complaints here, like I said, I found the acting to be rather convincing and spot-on. As for the characters, the lead is a mousy girl, named Laurie Strode, who mostly keeps to herself and behaves like a nice girl. Laurie's friend however, are nothing like her; Annie and Lynda (her two besties) are outgoing, popular and fun and yes, they have sex, they drink alcohol and smoke. Now guess which ones get killed and which ones get to live for several more sequels? Laurie is a good lead and someone the audience would normally care about. She's a very mature girl, responsible, hard working, great with kids and even though she doesn't follow her friends' life choices, she doesn't judge them either, which makes her a perfectly likable lead, which is important in a horror movie, because we are supposed to like her and root for her. "Halloween" holds up pretty well as a solid horror film that manages to avoid the campiness or the unintentionally funny moments, which is crucial if we are hoping to see a genuinely scary horror film. There are some well created moments filled with suspense and the emblematic music (composed by Carpenter himself) intensifies the feeling of uneasiness during the climax of the film. All in all, a good horror movie that is simply not one of my favorites.

So much has been said about John Carpenter's 'Halloween' that adding anything to it will be like adding a few drops of water to the ocean. People have their own opinions when they review 'Halloween', but I am going to share my own experiences that I had with 'Halloween'.As the opening credits begin, we are introduced to a sinister looking pumpkin (Jack-O-Lantern) that looks spooky yet funny and harmless with its eyes, nose and jagged mouth lit by the candle inside. Looking at it for a few seconds, the viewers then begin reading the cast and crew names....Donald Pleasance in John Carpenter's 'Halloween', Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie.....P.J. Soles as Lynda...Nancy Kyes as Annie Brackett....then Featuring: Kyle Richards, Brian Andrews...and by the time you reach 'Irwin Yablans' and 'Debra Hill' part.....You are just shocked to see that the 'sinister looking pumpkin' you almost forgot is now so close to you that you have no chance to escape its evil eye! That's what Michael Myers is for me! That's the beauty of Halloween.....The evil sneaks close to you and the worst thing is YOU ARE NOT PREPARED TO FACE IT!!!!Michael Myers is faceless, but being faceless makes him more menacing and scary. The 'fear of unknown' is more bone-chilling than the 'fear of known'. Michael Myers is unpredictable. We know he is evil.....and he only wants to do evil for sure......but how would he do it? We never know this. He uses his silence as a cloak to hide his deadly yet unknown agendas. Moving ahead in our lives, we always think it will be like that forever. Same old routine, going to college, working part time, chit-chatting with friends, teasing and gossiping. Life seems so easy, safe and enjoyable....Isn't it? But then a violent faceless 'shape' (Guess who 'The Shape' is!), whom we never thought of, shows up suddenly out of nowhere. His path of life, his point of view, his aim and his everything is entirely different from the common definitions and stuffs of life! You never noticed him (just like the sinister looking pumpkin) and remained busy in your daily chores, and eventually when he came very close....you realize that it's too late to escape death!Halloween needs to be preserved for eternity. It's an amazing combination of horror, mystery, nostalgia and music and fortunately each of its aspects work so well that together they give us this towering masterpiece. John Carpenter taught me to believe in boogeyman. He taught me that they do exist. He taught me to keep an eye on the dangers that may be hiding in vicinity and finally he taught me to keep the lights on while watching 'Halloween'. I really thank John Carpenter for making it way better than it was expected to be and for making something that has been scaring us for the last 37 years and I bet it will continue to do so till 'Horror' genre is alive.

The Pro's:
Halloween is a classic horror movie for a reason. Its iconic theme is at once haunting and heightens the tension, while providing an aural cue for the villain. The first installment of what would become a staple franchise, it introduces an iconic horror figure up there with Freddy Kruger and Jason Vorhees, creepy and seemingly omni-present in the now infamous white mask. Michael Meyers has a way of suddenly appearing that just chills.The Con's:
This movie was made on a shoe-string budget a long time ago, and boy can you tell. One thing I noticed first is the sound quality. The movie just sounds bad. The music and voice tracks are just grainy and not "clean", and that's not a stylistic choice. This movie also suffers from the all-too-common horror movie trope of characters being absolute idiots and making dumb decisions no one would ever make in real life. It's also hard to ignore that for a character who seemingly only walks slowly, he sure seems to catch everyone who is sprinting, and even driving, away from him.Consensus:
Halloween became a hit classic because it delivers a great villain and a great theme song with creepy tension, but it's just barely better than a B-movie when you strip the nostalgia away, and it's minimal budget is apparent in the production value and audio quality. 6 out of 10 stars.

There is a major difference between having respect for a film and being truly captivated by a film. Respect is simply realizing the importance a film had to cinema, or a certain genre, and admiring it for what it was in its time. Captivation is when you watch a film and are truly amazed by what you have just witnessed: in result, you think about it for days; you buy wallpaper with the main character printed on it; you give it a perfect score; it becomes a part of your life. With that said, let me briefly talk about the two main groups that make up the Halloween fan-base.Group (1) watched the film when they were 4-years-old or when it first came out, went in their pants, and then childishly force the biased idea that it's THE scariest movie of all time into the heads of everyone who is even a mild horror fan. Because of nostalgia, they ignore the fact that Halloween is just a generic killer-in-the-house movie, even in its time, and place it high above anything and everything that has come out in the horror genre afterward. It doesn't matter how original or intelligent a modern horror movie is, in their mind, by God, it can't touch Halloween. Funny, though, if you ask them "Why?", they can never answer you. Group (2) watched the film in their teen years, thought in the back of their heads that Halloween was nothing special, but gave it perfect scores out of pure respect and duty. Group (3) is rare, but it's the few who saw it recently and genuinely thought it was a superior film, without being biased by positive scores. Group (4), which I include myself in, is completely middle-ground. They realize the most of the film is nothing special, but there are enough cool elements to keep them from saying its pure crap.The reason I bring up the fans is because it's a subject that no one really wants to talk about, but a subject that is very important when analyzing the film. With millions of "Perfect!" opinions beating down on you, honestly realizing the mediocrity of Halloween isn't an easy thing to write in a review.The main reason Halloween isn't as great as it's hyped to be is the core story. A juggernaut killer kills. Point blank: it's generic, unoriginal, and just downright boring, even in its time. As citation, the year before Halloween came out, Stephen King expressed in an introduction that he was sick of "generic killers" and that he could "write this in" his "sleep". (Note: This was not in response to Halloween or any other movie, but his personal feelings.) When I look at Halloween as a story and as a story alone, I cannot give it any credit whatsoever. It's pathetic. It's painfully unoriginal. Much more complex and original horror stories were told in the '70s. For one, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre ('74). Another, Alien ('79). Another, The Shining novel ('77). Another, Carrie ('76). Halloween, in comparison to its peers, is just primitive in the way of plot, and that's the main reason I cannot give it a higher score. Some inaccurately credit it for starting the slasher sub-genre, but because it didn't, I can't even give it story credit for that.However, the reason I don't dismiss the movie as a total waste of time is because of the atmosphere and directing. John Carpenter doesn't quite reach the perfection here with these two elements that he later reached with The Thing, but it's still impossible to ignore how superior they are in Halloween. The opening sequence with Michael as a child is absolutely brilliant. It pays homage to Black Christmas ('74) by doing a first-person view of the killer, then takes it even further with a third-person view afterward. The Halloween night atmosphere isn't quite done to absolute nostalgic perfection, but it's done better than any other movie I've seen. The camera angles, the reveals of the killer, the shadowed faces—all clichés to us now, but this was the movie where most of them originated. And it did all of this without cheese. This aria is where Halloween deserves its credit.With that said, Halloween really isn't scary at all unless you grew up with it. Even in its time, it was a generic killer-in-the-house film, and, as I've read some reviews state, it wasn't scary even on its release night. As for gore, I'm not even sure I saw a single drop of blood in the entire film, and that got a little cheesy. The acting is also borderline cheesy at points, but nothing too distracting. What is distracting, however, is the lack of action for most of the screen time does get very boring. It is obvious Carpenter is trying to make up care for the characters by showing up drawn-out bits of their lives, but that doesn't work because they're all just cardboard, personality-less people. Halloween does get boring.I never write reviews based on my respect of a film, but rather on my view of a film. Halloween deserves the credit it receives. I won't deny that. What I will deny is that this is the scariest movie of all time, or even one of them. What I will deny is that this is the be-all-end-all horror movie, because there are far more intelligent and original horror movies out there. What I will deny is that Halloween is the ascension to heaven that the brainwashed fanboys make it out to be.3/10

John Carpenter's Halloween is quite frankly a horror masterpiece. It tells the immortal story of escaped mental patient Michael Myers, who returns to his hometown on Halloween night to stalk and kill a group of babysitters.This was the first and without doubt the best in the Halloween franchise. Carpenter shows great restraint in pacing the story very slowly and building likable characters; unusual for a horror picture.Even more unusual is the non-existence of blood and gore, and yet it remains the scariest Halloween to date. Halloween marked the film debut of Jamie Lee Curtis and a defining point in the late great Donald Pleasence's career. A true classic.

I just love the nostalgia of watching this movie over 40 years after its release. It's super creepy and, if we're being honest, it's also ridiculously cheesy and moronic, but this is one of the most famous horror movies of all time! When that music hits, it's just so iconic. I can't bring myself to rate it less than an 8. It's Halloween, man!

I originally wasn't too interested in the Halloween franchise of slasher movies because I originally thought that they looked like a rip-off of Friday the Thirteenth. It should also be noted that when I thought that I was maybe eight or nine and didn't really understand cinematic history as much as I do nowadays and I didn't know that Halloween came before Friday the 13th.About a year and a half ago I took an awesome class on the evolution of Horror Films by the decade and, of course, John Carpenter's movie was on the viewing list. After watching it on iTunes along with the Blumhouse Legacy sequel by David Gordon Green, I'm hooked on this series and have just recently finished up collecting all the films on Blu-Ray. Now, it's time to watch and review each film, one by one.For those who don't know the story of the first movie, it is a slasher film about an escaped mental patient who is an absolute murderous psychopath and who returns for some mysterious reason to his hometown of Haddonfield to begin a killing spree. The patient, named Michael Myers, is relentlessly pursued by the team-up of the Haddonfield sheriff, Sheriff Brackett, and Myers' psychologist, Dr. Sam Loomis, while Michael stalks a trio of female high school students on Halloween night.From the first sequence involving Michael's infamous first kill, this movie is incredibly innovative with the camerawork. I believe this is the first horror film to introduce the POV camera method, actually. Then when Michael is stalking poor lovelorn Laurie Strode throughout the daytime, it just gets creepier. Finally, when the night falls and the blood starts to flow, it gets nightmarish.Acting-wise, the movie is well-cast. I've really only seen Donald Pleasance as Blofeld in 'You Only Live Twice' and the lawyer guy in Disney's original 'Witch Mountain' movie, but I love him as Sam Loomis. Jamie Lee Curtis is pretty cute and innocent in the role of Laurie, but has a little bit of sass and coolness just under the surface. Charles Cypher does a good job as a small-town sheriff stretched thin on a tough night for law enforcement in general. And Nick Castle (who has recently returned for the Blumhouse trilogy) owns it as Michael Myers/The Shape.Besides the incredible camerawork and enjoyable acting, what really sells this film is John Carpenter's brilliant synthesizer-techno score. Aside from the iconic main theme, there are other great tracks that enhance the terror of various scenes and add to the spookiness as well. Most notably with the opening and closing scenes, I have noticed.As much as I want to find something wrong with this film, I think there really aren't any major problems with it. It would have been interesting if John Carpenter had been able to go through with his original plan for the sequels with each film being a contained and different story that has no relation to the previous Halloween film(s), much like Twilight Zone or Tales from the Crypt. Other than that, I think John Carpenter's Halloween is deserving of the praise that it gets. It really is a masterpiece of terror and horror.Pros:
Incredible Camerawork in combination with Pacing and EditingCool acting by a bunch of interesting actors who deliver some great scenesJohn Carpenter's synthesizer score is one of the best scary movie scores ever.The finale is probably one of the best ending scenes I have ever seen. And not just for a Horror film.Cons:
The sequels, even the Blumhouse ones, do kind of dismember (for lack of better terminology) the mystique of this film's story by giving Michael a twisted motive or two for why he kills.Final Word:
Way better contender than William Friedkin's The Exorcist for the scariest film ever. Though Stanley Kubrick's The Shining comes pretty darn close, even with it being so inaccurate to the original text.Stay Scared!

I have just recently been through a stage where I wanted to see why it is that horror films of the 90's can't hold a candle to 70's and 80's horror films. I have been very public in this forum about the vileness of films like The Haunting and Urban Legend and such. I feel that they (and others like them) don't know what true horror is. And it bothered me to the point where it made me go to my local video store and rent some of the classic horror films. I already own all the Friday's so I rented The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, the original Nightmare On Elm Street, Jaws, The Exorcist, Angel Heart, The Exorcist and Halloween. Now the other films are classics in their own right but it is here that I want to tell you about Halloween. Because what Halloween does is perhaps something no other film in the history of horror film can do, and that is it uses subtle techniques, techniques that don't rely on blood and gore, and it uses these to scare the living daylights out of you. I was in a room by myself with the lights off and as silly as I knew it was, I wanted to look behind me to see if Michael Myers was there. No movie that I have seen in the last ten years has done that to me. No movie.John Carpenter took a low budget film and he scared a generation of movie goers. He showed that you don't need budgets in the 8 or 9 figures to evoke fear on an audience. Because sometimes the best element of fear is not what actually happens, but what is about to happen. What was that shadow? What was that noise upstairs? He knows that these are the ways to scare someone and he uses every element of textbook horror that I think you can use. I even think he made up some of his own ideas and these should be ideas that people use today. But they don't. No one uses lighting and detail to provoke scares, they use special effects and rivers of blood. And it is just not the same. You can't be scared by a giant special effect that makes loud noises and jumps out of a wall. It's the moments when the killer is lurking, somewhere, you just don't know where, that scare you. And Halloween succeeds like no other film in this endeavor.In 1963 a young Micael Myers kills his sister with a large butcher knife and then spends the next 15 years of his life, silently locked up in an institute. As Loomis ( his doctor) says to Sheriff Brackett, " I spent eight years trying to reach him and then another seven making sure that he never gets out, because what I saw behind those eyes was pure e-vil. " That sets up the manic and relentless idea of a killer that will stop at nothing to get what he wants. And all he wants here is to kill Laurie. No one know why he wants to kill her, but he does.( Halloween II continues the story quite well )What Carpenter has done here is taken a haunting score, mendacious lighting techniques and wrote and directed a tightly paced masterpiece of horror. There is one scene that has to be described. And that is the scene where Annie is on her way to pick up Paul. She goes to the car and tries to open it. Only then does she realize that she has left her keys in the house. She gets them, comes back out and inadvertently opens the car door without using the keys. The audience picks up on this but she doesn't. She is too busy thinking about Paul. When she sits down, she notices that the windows are fogged up. She is puzzled and starts to wipe away the mist, and then Myers strikes, from the back seat. This is such a great scene because it pays attention to detail. We know what is happening and Annie doesn't. But it's astute observations that Carpenter made that scared the hell out of movie goers in 1978 and beyond. Halloween uses blurry images of a killer standing in the background, it has shadows ominously gliding across a wall, dark rooms, creepy and haunting music, a sinister story told hauntingly by Donald Pleasance and a menacing, relentless killer. My advice to film makers in our day and age is to study Halloween. It should be the blue print for what scary movies are all about. After all, Carpenter followed in Hitchcock's steps, maybe director's should follow in his.Halloween personifies everything that scares us. If you are tired of all the mindless horror films that don't know the difference between evil and cuteness, then Halloween is a film that should be seen. It won't let you down. I enjoy being scared, I don't know why, but I do. But nothing has scared me in the 90's, except maybe one film ( Wes Craven's final Nightmare ). If you enjoy beings scared, then Halloween is one that you should see. And if you have already seen it a hundred times, go and watch it again, back to back with a film like Urban Legend. Urban Legend will have you enticed at all the pretty faces in the movie. Halloween will have you frozen with fear, stuck in your seat, not wanting to move. Now tell me, what horror film would you rather watch?And just to follow up after seeing Zombie's version, it makes you appreciate this that much more. This is a classic by definition. Zombie bastardized his version, but it doesn't take away from the brilliance of this one.

I was 20 back in 1978, and saw this on opening weekend.  I knew nothing of it, and after growing up on the old Hammer films, followed by a period of almost nothing, this was quite a nice surprise. It really worked! Had me checking the back seat in cars, gave me a sinking feeling when I lost my keys, etc.  The low death toll and relative lack of blood, as compared to subsequent slasher films, has me really admiring how effectively it created the atmosphere & suspense that kept me on edge, and made me jump at the right places. I certainly don't jump any more at it, but I do have fun remembering what it was like watching it when the now-cliches were fresh & new.  I laugh at the 'horror' flicks of the 30s & 40s, but when they were new, I bet they were something. And I bet in another 20 years, today's toddlers will find Scream/IKWYDLS, et al, to be tame and passe too, at least compared to what they'll (& I'll) be watching then!I'm surprised at the number of people half my age who wish they could've been around to see this film when it was brand new!Looking back, Halloween probably scared me more when it was new, than other horror movies have,when they were new.  Horror films are indebted to Halloween for breaking some new ground, and I can't wait for the next horror film that will do something on a similar scale.

The best slasher ever made, and arguably one of the best horror movies ever made. John Carpenter is a genius. Amazing direction, an atmosphere built upon suspense and terror, effective use of first person pov shots. Immensely influential this movie birthed the best slasher villain, the best final girl, and the best soundtrack/theme. Above average acting and great performances from Jaime lee Curtis and Donald Pleasence (RIP). Although Texas Chainsaw and Black Christmas came before, this was the blueprint that sent the 80's into a slasher frenzy.

We're going back to 1978 to one of the original slashers, Halloween. This is a movie that has not only continued to be a constant watch around the autumn season, but has inspired several imitators hoping to capture that same success. I can't blame them as Halloween was made on a very low budget (it might have been lower then John Carpenter's first film Assault on Precinct 13), yet generated a major profit. You have to give it credit that while it was not the first slasher movie ever, it was the first to be centered around Halloween. What's interesting is despite the spooky surrounding of the holiday, Halloween was the first to set a horror story on that day. I think that similar to why we don't see Christmas settings in horror stories, Halloween too has a sense on innocence that even represents a right of passage with most children with trick or treating, watching scary movies, and of course, carving pumpkins. Having a dark character like Michael Myers suddenly come into the fold takes away the intentional fun scare to make way for the true scares. So is Halloween the classic that everyone says it is? Welllet's look at the story.After a very suspenseful opening that shows a young Michael Myers murdering his older sister, he is sent to a mental hospital where his doctor Samuel Loomis (played by Donald Pleasence) looks to keep him there as he says "I saw nothing but evil in his eyes". One evening before Halloween, Loomis sees that several inmates have escaped, including Michael Myers, who has stolen a car to make his way home to Haddonfield, Illinois. In that same town on the same block, teenager Laurie Strode (played by Jamie Lee Curtis) is getting ready for a typical night of babysitting her neighbors child Tommy while her friends are going to do the same. But unlike her friends like Lynda, Annie and Bob who want to make it a night of romance, Laurie is single, and thus more focused on being Tommy's friends and making it a nice Halloween. But once the sun sets and the jack o lanterns light up, Myers has made up a costume from a boiler suit and a mask and is heading back to his old neighborhood where Laurie is.People are constantly phrasing Halloween as the essential John Carpenter film and one of the greatest horror movies of all time. I'm sorry, but I find Halloween overrated. Is it bad? No, not at all. In fact there are some great elements. Speaking of which, let's get into the atmosphere. The beginning, which is all shown through Michael's perspective, is a masterpiece in horror staging and setting the mood to let you know that this kid isn't turning back. He will come out deranged. The rest of the time, you only see him with that mask, giving him the same idea that was occurring with Street Thunder in Assault on Precinct 13; that he's a force rather then a person. Jamie Lee Curtis is perfect as Laurie, with a combined sense of tension along with a bookish look that makes her the best choice for this kind of teenager. Donald Pleasance is often regarded with playing the authority figure, but few point out that he has that same sense of unpredictability and crazy that would have rubbed off given his job of watching Michael Myers. It's too bad that aside from the three leads, I found non of the other characters, even the child actors, that convincing. Laurie's friends especially only seem to exist to give the movie a longer running time.It probably has to do with the script, which aside from some good lines and setup, is not that good. If you listen to the way the teens talk, they seem too dumb for the sake of the plot. Even the adult characters just seem like stock cops and stock teachers that may have given this movie more depth. Without it, your stuck knowing whose very likely to get axed off while we wait patiently for Michael to eventually get to Laurie. Even the way this movie is shot is mixed. Many of the night shots seem clumsy and rushed which I can understand some of the reasoning (there are great moments with the way Michael Myers enters through the dark), but creates an lazy look when compared to how dark was shot in later John Carpenter films. I'd say that out of the things he did for the movie, John Carpenter's score may be the best as it is chilling and of course, has a memorable synth sound that would be his trademark. I'll give this six Michael Myers masks out of ten. The setup and situation seems ready to go, but I really wanted better characters out of the teens and a bit more unpredictability with the plot. Wouldn't it have been more interesting if one of the kids had gotten killed? At least there are a lot of elements that can make it entertaining in some areas. This is one horror movie I don't come back to that often, but I understand why a lot do. Take a look and see if this is one Halloween worth celebrating.

Halloween is not only the godfather of all slasher movies but the greatest horror movie ever!  John Carpenter and Debra Hill created the most suspenseful, creepy, and terrifying movie of all time with this classic chiller.  Michael Myers is such a phenomenal monster in this movie that he inspired scores of imitators, such as Jason Vorhees (Friday the 13th), The Miner (My Bloody Valentine), and Charlie Puckett (The Night Brings Charlie). Okay, so I got a little obscure there, but it just goes to show you the impact that this movie had on the entire horror genre.  No longer did a monster have to come from King Tut's tomb or from Dr. Frankenstein's lab. He could be created in the cozy little neighborhoods of suburbia.  And on The Night He Came Home...Haddonfield, Illinois and the viewers would never be the same.  There are many aspects of this movie that make it the crowning jewel of horror movies.  First is the setting...it takes place in what appears to be a normal suburban neighborhood.  Many of us who grew up in an area such as this can easily identify with the characters.  This is the type of neighborhood where you feel safe, but if trouble starts to brew, nobody wants to lift a finger to get involved (especially when a heavy-breathing madman is trying to skewer our young heroine.)  Along with the setting, the movie takes place on Halloween!!  The scariest night of the year!  While most people are carving jack-o-lanterns, Michael Myers is looking to carve up some teenie-boppers.  Besides the setting, there is some great acting. Jamie Lee Curtis does a serviceable job as our heroine, Laurie Strode, a goody-two-shoes high-schooler who can never seem to find a date.  However, it is Donald Pleasance, as Dr. Sam Loomis, who really steals the show. His portrayal of the good doctor, who knows just what type of evil hides behind the black eyes of Michael Myers and feels compelled to send him to Hell once and for all, is the stuff of horror legend.  However, it is the synthesizer score that really drives this picture as it seems to almost put the viewer into the film.  Once you hear it, you will never forget it.  I also enjoy the grainy feel to this picture.  Nowadays, they seem to sharpen up the image of every movie, giving us every possible detail of the monster we are supposed to be afraid of.  In Halloween, John Carpenter never really lets us get a complete look at Michael Myers.  He always seems like he is a part of the shadows, and, I think that is what makes him so terrifying.  There are many scenes where Michael is partly visible as he spies on the young teens (unbeknownst to them), which adds to his creepiness.  If you think about, some wacko could be watching you right now and you wouldn't even know it. Unfortunately for our teenagers (and fortunately for us horror fans), when they find Michael, he's not looking for candy on this Halloween night..he's looking for blood.  Finally, Michael Myers, himself, is a key element to this movie's effectiveness.  His relentless pursuit of Laurie Strode makes him seem like the killer who will never stop.  He is the bogeyman that will haunt you for the rest of your life.  So,if you have not seen this movie (if there are still some of you out there who haven't, or even if you have), grab some popcorn, turn off every light, pop this into the old DVD and watch in fright.  Trick or Treat!

I've already grown desensitized by so many other horror stories.
Older movies dont have the acting, sound work, or cinematography as modern movies.
So, I didn't find it scary or all that entertaining.
I can see how it would have been scary to those living a sheltered late 70s life though.
I understand that it is a classic and it was interesting to see so many cliche scenes borrowed by many movies that have followed though.
Oh, and he kills a dog in it. Not cool, man. Not cool.

My personal favorite horror film. From the lengthy first tracking shot to the final story twist, this is Carpenter's masterpiece.Halloween night 1963, little Michael Meyers murders his older sister. All-hallows-eve 1978, Michael escapes from Smith's Grove sanitarium. Halloween night, Michael has come home to murder again.The story is perfectly simple, Michael stalks and kills babysitters. No bells or whistles, just the basics. It's Carpenter's almost over-powering atmosphere of dread that generates the tension. Like any great horror film, events are telegraphed long in advance, yet they still seem to occur at random, never allowing the audience to the chance to second guess the film.The dark lighting, the long steady-cam shots, and (most importantly) that damn eerie music create the most claustrophobic and uncomfortable scenes I have yet to see in film. There is a body count, but compared to the slew of slashers after this it's fairly small. That and most of the murders are nearly bloodless. The fear is not in death, but in not knowing.The acting is roundelay good. PJ Soles provides much of the films limited humor (and one of the best deaths), Nancy Loomis turns in a decent performance and then there is the young (at the time) Jamie Leigh-Curtis. Her performance at first seems shy and un-assured, yet you quickly realize that it is perfect for the character, who is herself shy and un-assured and not at all prepared for what she is to face. And of course there is the perfectly cast Donald Pleasence as the determined (perhaps a little unstable) Dr. Sam Loomis. Rest in peace Mr. Pleasence.If the film has a detrimental flaw, it would be the passage of time. Since the release of this film so many years ago nearly countless clones, copies, rip-offs, and imitators have come along and stolen (usually badly) the films best bits until nearly everything about it has become familiar. Combined with the changes for audience expectations and appetites, one finds much of the films raw power diluted. To truly appreciate it in this day and age, it must be viewed as it once was, as something unique.Never the less, I have no reservation with highly recommending this film to anyone looking for a good, scary time. Highest Reguards.10/10.

That mask. Wow, is that mask scary. The same can be said about the music. Even 40 years later it completely holds up in every way-it's iconic, it sounds great, it's scary and it's instantly recognizable. Amazingly, John Carpenter wrote and performed the music despite claiming that he cannot write a single note. Before we see any part of the movie, we hear the music. Instantly, we feel unsettled. Then, watching through first-person stalker cam perspective and through the eyes of a Halloween mask, we observe a young boy peep on his sister then murder her. Fast forward 15 years and this young boy, Michael Myers, has grown into a man while living in a mental hospital, never once speaking a word. As if summoned by some evil power, he breaks out and travels to his home town of Haddonfield on Halloween. After breaking out and encountering people in the outside world, Michael still never says a word. It's another inspired filmmaking choice. Hearing his voice would humanize him in some way, instead all we hear is his heavy breathing. Why Michael returned to his hometown is unclear, as is everything about Michael. That's brilliance of this movie-we never find out why Michael killed his sister, we never find out why he escaped the hospital and we never find out why he continues to kill. We don't need to learn his reasons. No motive is scarier. Also scary, he's human. He's not some monster with superpowers (if you ignore the sequels, like you should), he's just a severely disturbed person. Think about that. That means this story is something that could actually happen in any American small town. His victims were seemingly random, so they could be anyone. No one is safe. Although, as I just mentioned, his killings are random, he does seem to take issue with people having sex. This started the now famous horror trope that characters who have sex are as good as dead. This movie also popularizes the horror staple of victims who consistently make dumb decisions. Stop dropping the knife! Stop assuming he's dead! It's maddening. Another aspect of the movie that stood out to me is its surprising lack of violence. There's virtually no blood or gore. Michael mostly strangles his victims. He uses his knife too, of course, but the killings aren't terribly graphic. It's refreshing change of pace from the excessive violence in modern slashers.While Michael may seem invincible since he survives two stabbings and multiple gun shot wounds, he is not flawless. Upon my latest re-watch, I noticed how much he struggles with walking. Michael Myers is a hall of fame level killer, but he's a below average walker.This likely a deliberate choice by director John Carpenter. Not only does Michael's slow walk build suspense, it also lends itself perfectly to the first-person camera shots. The patient, measured movements give him an eerie feel. He's lurking. We see his lurking figure in many forms, each equally brilliant in its execution. Sometimes we see his outline as a shadow. Sometimes we see him ease into the corner of the frame behind a victim. Other times we see a distant shot of a house of character, then Michael partially steps in frame near the camera. Carpenter expertly mixes foreground and background in his shots to make Michael just far enough away that the characters don't see him but the audience does.The movie builds and builds and builds. It's definitely scary from the opening scene, but it grows continuously scarier as we see the extent of Michael's killing spree. All the while, jump scares are sparsely used and are never fake. What I mean by that is when the music jars viewers, it's because Michael appears. The music never blares for fake scares, like when a cat runs across screen or a friend knocks on a door, which is annoying trend in recent horror films. The only scary part of this film is Michael. Fortunately, he's plenty scary to carry the load. 'Halloween' is considered an ageless horror masterpiece. After re-watching it recently, I can clearly see why that is the case.

I didn't watch these '70s and '80s horror movies like "Halloween" until the mid 1990s when I watched every VHS I could get hold of, so a film like this looked pretty tame to what I was already used to seeing by the '90s. However, what this film offers (see below) has some real value, and has a major lesson to learn to the people who make movies..Comparing horror series that were both popular in the 1980s, I did not find it anywhere near as entertaining as the "Nightmare On Elm Street" horror series. Maybe I was too old by the time I finally saw this, but I appreciated the humor "Freddie Krueger" provided as the main character in those Elm Street stories. A little humor, sometimes, is nice relief in a suspenseful horror flick.That's not to say Halloween wasn't worth a look, especially with young Jamie Lee Curtis making her film debut. And, like many films with sequels, I found this first Halloween as the best of all of them.Also on the positive side, it's nice to see a modern-day (post '60s) horror flick without all the blood and gore. The writers here were smart enough to play on our fears, not having gross body parts flung in our face. In other words, suspense is the name of the game here, something filmmakers did effectively for years in the classic era of movies. It seems a lot of that has been replaced with shock today. Young filmmakers who are into horror could learn a lot studying this movie.

I remember hearing about Halloween when I was in the fifth grade. A couple of friends told me how cool it was and I relished over having the privilege of sharing their opportunity to see R rated Horror. But the movie to me was nothing special. The hype immensely outweighed its value and I was quite frankly, disappointed. Sure there are some chilling movements and usage of slow motion and antics with camera angles. But the final result was pretty stupid.The killer falls from the window after having been shot by a 6 round pistol and is then missing. Donald Pleasance gives a look of shock and anguish and glosses his eyes over the screen. The premonition is "There will be a sequel", and then some and then some. Gag me.Jamie Lee Curtis is nothing but a drab chick that panics and falls repeatedly when being chased. P.J. Soles is an equally annoying chick with a dimwitted boyfriend. You can only enjoy the deliberately slow and banal moments of their demise. Donald Pleasance is the only real actor here and it's the expression in his eyes and intensity of his voice that carries this slow and plodding plot line.The killer to me was very disappointing. Watching a slow, plodding mental case in a dumb mask wasn't scary enough.I am one of the select few who thought this movie was overrated and I can think of numerous, maybe hundreds of horror films better and scarier than Halloween. I can even think of films not under the horror genre scarier and more suspenseful than Halloween.Case closed.

Oh the memories!  I was 9 years old when I first saw this movie on HBO with my younger cousin and older brother....it was about 1980.  It was so creepy. When the movie went off me and my cousin were too scaried to go to bed so we stayed up until the infamous "Night Tracks" went off on TBS (REMEMBER NIGHT TRACKS??).  The 'Halloween' Movie Theme stayed with me for years. Everytime I hear the theme I think back to when I was a kid.  I would often dread when my parents would go out on the weekends and let my older brother babysit me.  I just knew that Micheal Myers would know that my parents were not home and kill me. In my opinion, a movie should stay with you long after the movie is over. That's what 'Halloween' did for me.  Each Halloween night, I remember back to 1978, when 'Halloween' came out.  I think of the young scared child that I was and how good the first 'Halloween'movie really was!

I'm not sure how much there is to say about this undisputed horror classic that hasn't been said already but here goes: John Carpenter's influential slasher movie is a superb example of low-budget film making. Despite being made on the cheap, with home-made synthesiser music from Carpenter and a lead of relative unknowns, HALLOWEEN still stands firm today as the pinnacle of the slasher genre. Many films have since tried to imitate the look and feel of this movie but all have failed, lacking skills in expertise film-making and instead preferring to show torrents of blood and gristle in an attempt to shock/disgust the audience instead of really frightening them.The film's opening, with the P.O.V. shots from a killer as he goes about the murder of his own sister, may recall similar moments in BLACK Christmas but they are used far more effectively and copiously throughout the film, really putting us into the evil mind of the killer as he stares impassively at the people he is about to kill. The film is light on plot, with all of the events taking place within 20 hours; Myers escapes from the hospital, is pursued to Haddonfield by Dr Loomis, and begins to murder a bunch of teenagers. That's all there is to it. So simple, yet so effective, the film's casual simplicity is what draws you into the movie: the first half an hour is deceptively slow, introducing all the lead characters and inserting lots of little foreboding shocks and scares like the ace scenes where Laurie notices Myers watching her from behind a hedge or clothesline.From then on, there are a protracted number of stalk and slash sequences, all played out slowly with lots of build-up and a sudden resolution as the victim is killed (apart from the finale, which turns into a game of cat and mouse between Laurie and Myers). Carpenter's camera-work is wonderful and unsettling, remaining totally unpredictable throughout, and his tinkly music score has been much imitated as well but never equalled. The main theme tune is an instantly recognisable and hauntingly atmospheric score that beats any rival tunes from the main studio guys.The cast all do their darndest to make the film work, and succeed. Jamie Lee Curtis stands out as tough but human heroine Laurie, forced to face the evil head on and do her best to fight it, and found herself typecast for the next four years as a result of her efforts. Nancy Loomis and P. J. Soles are also good and realistic as everyday teenagers who unexpectedly meet their maker on that fatal Halloween night. The only really familiar face in the cast is Donald Pleasence as Dr Loomis, Myers' obsessed psychiatrist who has come to believe that his patient is pure evil and cannot be stopped or cured. Incredibly the role was originally written for Christopher Lee! However, Pleasence, always an undervalued horror actor I believe, is excellent as Loomis, going way over the top ("his eyes... the devil's eyes!") - he may be nuttier than the killer he's after! Seriously, Loomis plays a pivotal role and created such a memorable character that he too was forced to return in sequel after sequel with Michael.The key secret to Carpenter's success is that he doesn't use gore as a method to scare the audience, realising that bloody prosthetics don't create real terror; instead, he relies on old fashioned jump-cuts, sudden bursts of music and shocking surprises, like characters stepping out of the darkness on to the screen unexpectedly. With at least twenty such scenes occurring within the film, this really is a frightening one to watch and not recommended for those with a nervous disposition (I remember watching it one night alone in the house as a kid... couldn't sleep that night... too busy looking and listening out for Myers). The finale is the best part of the film, with growing horror as Laurie realises that Myers may be an indestructible foe after all as he repeatedly rises from the seemingly dead to attack her one more time.Although by now, many of the scares and methods that Carpenter uses have been diluted by the sequels that followed and the legions of imitators, HALLOWEEN still packs a punch and is miles ahead of any modern-day competition, such as SCREAM, which becomes over-complicated and too slick, self-referential and self-indulgent for its own good. What we have here is a simple tale of good vs evil, a classic horror story of the boogeyman coming home to kill, and one of the best horrors ever made!

I must admit, this is one of my favorite horror films of all time. The unique way that John Carpenter has directed this picture, opening the door to so many mock-genres, it will chill you to the bone whether it is your first time watching it or your fiftieth. The sound, the menacing horror of Michael Meyers and the infamous scream of Jamie Lee Curtis gives this film instant cult status and a great start for the independent era. I love the music, I love the characters, the familiar yet spooky setting, the simplistic nature of the villain, and the random chaos of it all. There is no really rhyme or reason to the killing in this first film, giving us a taste of Michael's true nature. Is he insane, or in some way just a very brilliant beast? That question may never be truly answered, but Carpenter gives us his 100% and more devotion to this amazing masterpiece.John Carpenter is the master of horror. While lately his films have not been the caliber that they once were (see Ghosts of Mars), Halloween began his powerhouse of a career. This is his ultimate film. While he did release other greats, I will always remember this one as the film that caused me to turn on all the lights, beware when babysitting, and check behind closed doors, because you never knew where the evil would appear next. Carpenter has this amazing ability to bring you into the world in which he weaves. With the power of his camera, he places these images of Meyers in places you least expected while giving you the perception as if the murderer is right next to you. I loved every scene in which we panned back and there was Michael, watching from the distance, without anyone the wiser. That was scary, yet utterly brilliant. I loved the scenes in which Carpenter pulled your fright from nearly thin air. There you would be, minding your own business, when suddenly that horrid mask would appear out of nowhere. Like the characters, you too thought it was just a trick of the eye, but that is where Carpenter gets you, it isn't. Michael isn't a ghost, he is a human being (or at least we think), yet he has a stronger mental ability than most of the main characters. This leads into some really dark themes and unexplored symbolism, but even without that, this is a spooky film.Then, if you just didn't have enough of Michael just vaporizing in the windows of your house, Carpenter adds that chilling theme music. I still have that tapping of the piano keys in my mind, constantly wondering if Meyers is looking at me through the window. Carpenter has found the perfect combination of visual frights and chilling sounds to foreshadow what may happen to our unsuspecting victims next. It is lethal, and it is done with refreshing originality and more unique thrills than anything released by today's Horror Hollywood could muster. Carpenter's Halloween is a breath of fresh air in the midst of what could be a rough horror year, with actual scares being replaced by Paris Hilton, you know that the quality isn't quite the same.Finally, I would like to say that even the simplistic nature of the opening murder in this film is terrifying and chilling. The use of the "clown" mask sent shivers up my spine. The way that it was filmed with that elongated one shot using the child's mask as if it were our own eyes is still one of the best horror openings ever! It completely sets the tone for the remainder of that film. You have the babysitter theme, you have the childish behavior which carries with Michael throughout the film, and you have the art talent of Carpenter all rolled into one. I could literally speak for hours upon hours about this film, but instead I would rather go watch it again. It is worth the repeat visit many times! Overall, I think this is one of the most outstanding films in cinematic history. Skip all those foreign films that think that they are going to chance the face of movies leave it to a budget tight Carpenter and the slasher film genre. This singular movie redefined a whole generation of horror films, and still continues to be an influence on modern-day horror treats. The lethal combination of a genuinely spooky murderer, the powerful cinematography of the events (which normally doesn't amount to much in horror films), and the beauty of Jamie Lee Curtis is exactly what makes Halloween that film above the rest. Sure, Freddy is cool and you feel sympathetic for Jason, but Michael is real, he is troubled, and he is on the loose lusting for the blood of babysitters. What can be better? Grade: ***** out of *****

Arguably the first Senseless Knife-Kill flick; arguably the first "serial murder" movie mislabeled as "horror"; arguably the only movie to ever use a Captain Kirk mask to scare people. Intentionally rather than accidentally.HALLOWEEN is historical; like Friday THE 13TH and a handful of seminal horror movies that spawned an unstoppable tide of sequels, it has entered into world consciousness. Unlike Friday THE 13TH and many of those other seminal horror "classics," HALLOWEEN is actually a reasonably good movie.After all, John Carpenter writes and directs. And HALLOWEEN features two actual actors in its leading roles: Donald Pleasance, who intimidated everyone with his experience and British accent, and Jamie Lee Curtis, in her feature film debut, disguising her striking man-features with a luscious mop of brown locks and displaying a conviction and commitment to her pear-shaped bellbottoms that outshone all her idiotic teen co-stars.HALLOWEEN has nothing to do with the American-celebrated night of October 31st, Hallows Eve; it's just a nice night to kill teenagers having sex.15 years ago, young Michael Myers in a clown mask knifed his sister and was sent to a mental institution, where he was treated by psychiatrist, Dr. Loomis (Pleasence). An adult now, Myers escapes, with Loomis hot on his trail, tracking him to the tree-lined suburb of Haddonfield, Illinois, his old home.In the script, Myers was known only as The Shape, as Steadicams portrayed his Point-Of-View, Carpenter not allowing us many clear views of the psychopath whom Loomis describes as "pure evil" - which is a simple way of getting out of any real character motivation. It's the movie version of "Because I said so." So Myers can kill anyone at any time for any reason - because he's Pure Evil, see? The stoic flesh-colored mask he wears is actually a spraypainted Captain Kirk mask - ahh, now that's Pure Evil.Myers stalks Lori (Curtis) for no reason (maybe cos he's "Pure Evil"), until Halloween night when he starts killing teens in his hometown for no reason. Even Lori's ultimate Running and Screaming relationship with Myers only comes about because he kills her bad actor teen friends across the road and she investigates in her pear bellbottoms.In the late 70s, in theaters across the nation, HALLOWEEN's iconic, chilling music guaranteed girlfriends would be grabbing their dates in the dark, instead of the other way round, and I'm sure the jump-scares gave teen boys valid reason to spill sodas over their date's bra-less blouses. And offer to wash them back at his place...Kids, have you learned nothing from this movie? Teen sex could get you killed. (Of course, the Puritans who run America needed an even stronger wrongful message that "sex causes death," so they invented AIDS.) Ironically, the man who was the inspiration for Dr. Evil saves the day, Ernst Stavro Blofeld.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania).

There was once a time where I wasn't crazy about horror but over-time I have grown to appreciate it. Halloween really is a true classic of its genre, it is genuinely scary, taut and is pretty much the only movie of the franchise in my opinion that is not only truly effective after all this time but also where everything works.Halloween is very well made for starters, with atmospheric lighting and camera angles definite things to like. The score is resolutely haunting, the story is tightly paced and compelling, John Carpenter's direction is superb with some inspired, efficient techniques and while I have heard better the dialogue is good enough with some sharpness and nothing really that stands out as too cheesy or stilted.The acting is very good, and the characters especially Michael Myers are iconic. Jamie Lee Curtis is more than just a pretty face, her acting seems very genuine and she gives her character welcome gravitas. Donald Pleasance is excellent too, while Michael Myers as a character is the personification of terror.Halloween also works so well because of its atmosphere. It doesn't rely on excessive and cheap gore to make its point, or frenzied camera angles and the like. What it has is real suspense and genuine jolts especially in the last twenty minutes.All in all, a true classic. 10/10 Bethany Cox

I have mixed feelings about this film. I like it and I've seen it around five or six times, but there's something about "Halloween" that I find dissatisfying. Incorrectly regarded as the first slasher ever made, "Halloween" started a trend of low budget films about mysterious killers wearing a mask and murdering young people with no specific reasons. The truth is that "Halloween" changed horror movies for good and served as an influence for many horror films that came after. While "Black Christmas" came four years before this, and it is one of my favorite slashers, I think it is less known, because we never get to see the killer, while "Halloween" gives us a very frightening looking villain, capable of causing horror to the most experienced horror fans. Michael Myer's design is actually very modest: a white mask with black eyes, a blue overall and a big kitchen knife that make him very sinister, without having to appeal to something more brutal and explicit, like some of the slasher killers that came after him. Michael is a very well designed horror villain and he is probably one of my favorites too (keeping in mind that this isn't the only "Halloween" film). So what is it about "Halloween" that doesn't quite do it for me?My main problem with "Halloween" is that I find it a little bit slow (there, I said it!) and I'm sure this is the main reason why other people dislike it as well, which automatically causes avid "Halloween" fans to accuse the detractors of only being capable of appreciating horror films with a lot of cheap-scares. I actually don't have a problem with slow films, but I feel like most of this film features the main character going on about her business, chatting with her silly friends about high school crushes and stuff, and we occasionally see Michael Myers appearing here and there. I do realize that this is intended to create a frightening atmosphere and it actually works well, but after a while, I find it a little bit tedious.Those who want gory murders will have to skip this film. While I think gore is not always a requirement, I would normally expect the murders to have some kind of shock value and be disturbing, even if we don't get to see a single drop of blood (it can happen). Most of the murders are rather predictable and what we see on the screen isn't too disturbing or shocking, at least not by nowadays' standards. Fortunately, the music during the murders is so powerful and fear-provoking that it makes up for the lack of brutality. For the life of me, I can't understand how "Halloween" got an R-rating in so many countries. Not only there's barely any blood in it, but also, the nudity is very naïf and harmless. Towards the last twenty minutes, "Halloween" displays a lot of suspense, mainly with Laurie Strode (the lead) being chased by the sinister Michael Myers. This part of the film is not only full of tension due to the fact that a merciless killer is out to get an innocent high school girl for no apparent reason, but also because two small kids are in danger and it's the lead girl's implied responsibility to protect them. The confrontation between Michael and Laurie is chilling, as the killer is apparently impossible to kill and Laurie, in all her nervousness, goes out of her way to make the worst possible choices when it comes to escaping the lunatic. While I find the night scenario and the dark in general to be fitting for a horror film about a mysterious killer, I find the excessive dark to also make it very difficult to fully appreciate what's going on at times. The acting in "Halloween" is very solid, which is unlikely to find in slasher films, or at least the ones that came out during and after the eighties. The main three actresses are Jamie Lee Curtis (unknown back then), P. J. Soles and Nancy Loomis, while English actor Donald Pleasence plays Detective Sam Loomis. I have no complaints here, like I said, I found the acting to be rather convincing and spot-on. As for the characters, the lead is a mousy girl, named Laurie Strode, who mostly keeps to herself and behaves like a nice girl. Laurie's friend however, are nothing like her; Annie and Lynda (her two besties) are outgoing, popular and fun and yes, they have sex, they drink alcohol and smoke. Now guess which ones get killed and which ones get to live for several more sequels? Laurie is a good lead and someone the audience would normally care about. She's a very mature girl, responsible, hard working, great with kids and even though she doesn't follow her friends' life choices, she doesn't judge them either, which makes her a perfectly likable lead, which is important in a horror movie, because we are supposed to like her and root for her. "Halloween" holds up pretty well as a solid horror film that manages to avoid the campiness or the unintentionally funny moments, which is crucial if we are hoping to see a genuinely scary horror film. There are some well created moments filled with suspense and the emblematic music (composed by Carpenter himself) intensifies the feeling of uneasiness during the climax of the film. All in all, a good horror movie that is simply not one of my favorites.

So much has been said about John Carpenter's 'Halloween' that adding anything to it will be like adding a few drops of water to the ocean. People have their own opinions when they review 'Halloween', but I am going to share my own experiences that I had with 'Halloween'.As the opening credits begin, we are introduced to a sinister looking pumpkin (Jack-O-Lantern) that looks spooky yet funny and harmless with its eyes, nose and jagged mouth lit by the candle inside. Looking at it for a few seconds, the viewers then begin reading the cast and crew names....Donald Pleasance in John Carpenter's 'Halloween', Jamie Lee Curtis as Laurie.....P.J. Soles as Lynda...Nancy Kyes as Annie Brackett....then Featuring: Kyle Richards, Brian Andrews...and by the time you reach 'Irwin Yablans' and 'Debra Hill' part.....You are just shocked to see that the 'sinister looking pumpkin' you almost forgot is now so close to you that you have no chance to escape its evil eye! That's what Michael Myers is for me! That's the beauty of Halloween.....The evil sneaks close to you and the worst thing is YOU ARE NOT PREPARED TO FACE IT!!!!Michael Myers is faceless, but being faceless makes him more menacing and scary. The 'fear of unknown' is more bone-chilling than the 'fear of known'. Michael Myers is unpredictable. We know he is evil.....and he only wants to do evil for sure......but how would he do it? We never know this. He uses his silence as a cloak to hide his deadly yet unknown agendas. Moving ahead in our lives, we always think it will be like that forever. Same old routine, going to college, working part time, chit-chatting with friends, teasing and gossiping. Life seems so easy, safe and enjoyable....Isn't it? But then a violent faceless 'shape' (Guess who 'The Shape' is!), whom we never thought of, shows up suddenly out of nowhere. His path of life, his point of view, his aim and his everything is entirely different from the common definitions and stuffs of life! You never noticed him (just like the sinister looking pumpkin) and remained busy in your daily chores, and eventually when he came very close....you realize that it's too late to escape death!Halloween needs to be preserved for eternity. It's an amazing combination of horror, mystery, nostalgia and music and fortunately each of its aspects work so well that together they give us this towering masterpiece. John Carpenter taught me to believe in boogeyman. He taught me that they do exist. He taught me to keep an eye on the dangers that may be hiding in vicinity and finally he taught me to keep the lights on while watching 'Halloween'. I really thank John Carpenter for making it way better than it was expected to be and for making something that has been scaring us for the last 37 years and I bet it will continue to do so till 'Horror' genre is alive.

The Pro's:
Halloween is a classic horror movie for a reason. Its iconic theme is at once haunting and heightens the tension, while providing an aural cue for the villain. The first installment of what would become a staple franchise, it introduces an iconic horror figure up there with Freddy Kruger and Jason Vorhees, creepy and seemingly omni-present in the now infamous white mask. Michael Meyers has a way of suddenly appearing that just chills.The Con's:
This movie was made on a shoe-string budget a long time ago, and boy can you tell. One thing I noticed first is the sound quality. The movie just sounds bad. The music and voice tracks are just grainy and not "clean", and that's not a stylistic choice. This movie also suffers from the all-too-common horror movie trope of characters being absolute idiots and making dumb decisions no one would ever make in real life. It's also hard to ignore that for a character who seemingly only walks slowly, he sure seems to catch everyone who is sprinting, and even driving, away from him.Consensus:
Halloween became a hit classic because it delivers a great villain and a great theme song with creepy tension, but it's just barely better than a B-movie when you strip the nostalgia away, and it's minimal budget is apparent in the production value and audio quality. 6 out of 10 stars.

Halloween is one of those movies that gets you skin deep! It is in my opinion, the scariest movie of all time. Michael Myers is the best boogeyman ever! He was just so terrifying! What makes Halloween so special is that there was no special effects where you can tell how computer animated it is, this was on a low budget and had a one note score, yet managed to scare the Hell out of people. 25 years and this movie still has the same effect as it did in '78.It's about a boy Michael Myers, he kills his sister at the age of 6 and so many years later escapes the mental institution. Dr. Sam Loomis is after him and will do anything to get him back, since he describes Michael as "...pure evil. The blackest eyes, the Devil's eyes". Michael is on a mission though, to kill his other sister, Laurie, played by a new Jamie Lee Curtis. She has to babysit on Halloween, while her friends are out partying and of course, we know the rules, they get it! But Laurie may stand a chance since she's the virgin. ;D Halloween pays many homages to Psycho, we have another character named Sam Loomis and Jamie Lee Curis, the daughter of Janet Leigh. Halloween is an absolute terrific movie that breaks boundaries and makes you lock the doors, bolt your windows, and turn off the lights! "They're gonna get you! They're gonna get you!". Halloween, the ultimate horror film! 10/10

I really liked this movie as a child, so i decided to give it a go again. I read here on IMDb that is was rated 7.9 so my expectations was high though it's an old movie. And it was a good movie, but to many flaws, and to many things doesn't add up. 1. Michael has been locked up since he's 6 years, even though he drives a car just after he escapes. Quick Learning:P 2.Notmuch story to2ld. No character devolepment. 3. I really can't stand the stupidity of people in horror movies, first she stick him in the head with a needle or something:P gets his knife, but doesn't finish him off. And yes, Myers rises.. Then she stab him with a knife, and decide to nevermind making sure he's dead.. And yes, Myers rises from the dead once again. 4. I really started to hate the lead character ( ms. curtis) when she is being chased by myers who just finished of killing a bunch of people at a house, she decides to run over to an other little kid in another house, even though a little earlier she saw myers break through a door with no problems. But it was really scary:) Overall: 6.4

There is a major difference between having respect for a film and being truly captivated by a film. Respect is simply realizing the importance a film had to cinema, or a certain genre, and admiring it for what it was in its time. Captivation is when you watch a film and are truly amazed by what you have just witnessed: in result, you think about it for days; you buy wallpaper with the main character printed on it; you give it a perfect score; it becomes a part of your life. With that said, let me briefly talk about the two main groups that make up the Halloween fan-base.Group (1) watched the film when they were 4-years-old or when it first came out, went in their pants, and then childishly force the biased idea that it's THE scariest movie of all time into the heads of everyone who is even a mild horror fan. Because of nostalgia, they ignore the fact that Halloween is just a generic killer-in-the-house movie, even in its time, and place it high above anything and everything that has come out in the horror genre afterward. It doesn't matter how original or intelligent a modern horror movie is, in their mind, by God, it can't touch Halloween. Funny, though, if you ask them "Why?", they can never answer you. Group (2) watched the film in their teen years, thought in the back of their heads that Halloween was nothing special, but gave it perfect scores out of pure respect and duty. Group (3) is rare, but it's the few who saw it recently and genuinely thought it was a superior film, without being biased by positive scores. Group (4), which I include myself in, is completely middle-ground. They realize the most of the film is nothing special, but there are enough cool elements to keep them from saying its pure crap.The reason I bring up the fans is because it's a subject that no one really wants to talk about, but a subject that is very important when analyzing the film. With millions of "Perfect!" opinions beating down on you, honestly realizing the mediocrity of Halloween isn't an easy thing to write in a review.The main reason Halloween isn't as great as it's hyped to be is the core story. A juggernaut killer kills. Point blank: it's generic, unoriginal, and just downright boring, even in its time. As citation, the year before Halloween came out, Stephen King expressed in an introduction that he was sick of "generic killers" and that he could "write this in" his "sleep". (Note: This was not in response to Halloween or any other movie, but his personal feelings.) When I look at Halloween as a story and as a story alone, I cannot give it any credit whatsoever. It's pathetic. It's painfully unoriginal. Much more complex and original horror stories were told in the '70s. For one, The Texas Chain Saw Massacre ('74). Another, Alien ('79). Another, The Shining novel ('77). Another, Carrie ('76). Halloween, in comparison to its peers, is just primitive in the way of plot, and that's the main reason I cannot give it a higher score. Some inaccurately credit it for starting the slasher sub-genre, but because it didn't, I can't even give it story credit for that.However, the reason I don't dismiss the movie as a total waste of time is because of the atmosphere and directing. John Carpenter doesn't quite reach the perfection here with these two elements that he later reached with The Thing, but it's still impossible to ignore how superior they are in Halloween. The opening sequence with Michael as a child is absolutely brilliant. It pays homage to Black Christmas ('74) by doing a first-person view of the killer, then takes it even further with a third-person view afterward. The Halloween night atmosphere isn't quite done to absolute nostalgic perfection, but it's done better than any other movie I've seen. The camera angles, the reveals of the killer, the shadowed faces—all clichés to us now, but this was the movie where most of them originated. And it did all of this without cheese. This aria is where Halloween deserves its credit.With that said, Halloween really isn't scary at all unless you grew up with it. Even in its time, it was a generic killer-in-the-house film, and, as I've read some reviews state, it wasn't scary even on its release night. As for gore, I'm not even sure I saw a single drop of blood in the entire film, and that got a little cheesy. The acting is also borderline cheesy at points, but nothing too distracting. What is distracting, however, is the lack of action for most of the screen time does get very boring. It is obvious Carpenter is trying to make up care for the characters by showing up drawn-out bits of their lives, but that doesn't work because they're all just cardboard, personality-less people. Halloween does get boring.I never write reviews based on my respect of a film, but rather on my view of a film. Halloween deserves the credit it receives. I won't deny that. What I will deny is that this is the scariest movie of all time, or even one of them. What I will deny is that this is the be-all-end-all horror movie, because there are far more intelligent and original horror movies out there. What I will deny is that Halloween is the ascension to heaven that the brainwashed fanboys make it out to be.3/10

To begin, this is a twenty year old film.  Few films remain as suspenseful today as they did when it came out.  (see: Night of the Living Dead -- had people running from the theatres when released but is very tame today).  Clearly a movie fan brought up on the standards of today's movies will fail to find enjoyment of such 'classic' films.  But when watching Halloween today perhaps it helps to consider a few things: Halloween was a low budget film (read: bad acting, poor special effects) made for only $300,000.  It was not a product of Hollywood but a bunch of 20 year olds.  This was the first film to feature the Boogeyman that Wouldn't Die which has been ripped off time and time again in the Friday the 13th, Elm Street, Scream, etc.  You're used to it now, but Halloween did it first.  Even Scream ripped off the look of the villian in Halloween.  The theme of teenagers being stalked by a madman has been ripped of numerous times as well (again, Halloween did it first) but what seperates Halloween from the imitators is that it plays on traditional fears: The Thing that Wouldn't Die; the Boogeyman coming to get you; being followed and stalked; the boyfriend returning to the room under a bedsheet -- and it's not really him; someone hiding in the car... all things that have made our skin crawl in real life at one time or another. Watching Halloween tonight again for the first time in years I found myself again on the edge of my seat.  Classic?  Hell, yes.  Maybe not to a generation who feels Scream was a 'good' horror movie but a classic none the less.