A sullen Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour (Bill Nighy) sets the mood for this seventh and penultimate instalment of Harry Potter. "These are dark times, there's no denying," he intones gravely, pointing out the grim state of affairs facing the nation- murders, disappearances and raids- but reassuring the public, as any politician would, that his Ministry has it all under control. Of course, he is only bluffing, and it doesn't take long before the palpable sense of doom and despair convinces you otherwise. Welcome back to the magical world of Harry Potter, one that began with wonder and joy, but has since become shrouded in death and darkness. Still visibly distraught from the death of his mentor Professor Albus Dumbledore, Harry is now tasked to continue with the mission of the late Dumbledore- to find and destroy the remaining Horcruxes (accursed objects containing fragments of Voldemort's soul). It doesn't get any easier, since Voldemort is nearing the height of his powers, and his bidders have infiltrated the bureaucracy to paint Harry as a wanted criminal. There are fewer and fewer allies around- even those within the Order of the Phoenix may have since betrayed their ranks- and the first half hour quickly establishes the danger and urgency of the situation at hand. Members of the Order, including Mad-Eye Moody (Brendan Gleeson) and Hagrid (Robbie Coltrane), attempt to escort Harry to safety- but even that mission is met with an attack from the Death Eaters, culminating in a dizzyingly exciting high-speed flying-bike chase that shouldn't disappoint fans looking for some action sorely missed in the last movie. Indeed, naysayers who think David Yates doesn't know how to stage thrilling action sequences should think again, as he demonstrates amply that he is just as capable when it comes to staging them. He also displays an uncanny knack for milking suspense out of scenes- in particular, Harry, Hermoine and Ron's daring raid on the Ministry of Magic and their subsequent visit to Godric's Hollow, Harry's birthplace and home to Bathilda Bagshot, a magician and dear friend to Dumbledore. These brim with nail-biting tension, and Yates plays them out nicely to set your pulse racing at the end. The crux of this film however lies in the relationships between Harry, Hermoine and Ron as they set off in the middle of the film across the bleak English countryside on their quest to discover the means to destroy the Horcruxes. On the run from Voldemort, the trio find the immensity of their journey taking a toll on them. Harry and Ron's friendship begins to fray as Ron grows suspect of Hermoine's affections for Harry. Meanwhile, Harry can barely conceal his frustration with getting no headway and starts losing his temper at Ron. Infused with a profound sense of isolation and loss, this middle stretch in the film may be tedious for some impatient viewers, but fans will be rewarded with probably the richest depiction of the relationships between the characters since the first two movies. One scene where Harry and Hermoine suddenly decide to dance together to the tune of Nick Cave's The Children playing on the radio is lyrical in its depiction of their desperate attempt to find levity in a world that affords none. Yes, their friendship strong and deep since the beginning will be tested, and Yates delivers an emotional payoff towards the end of the film that is truly poignant. Thanks to the decision to split the final book into two films, Yates doesn't hurry through these scenes. Instead, he allows the audience to experience the frustration, jealousy and uncertainty of his characters, and allows for Radcliffe, Watson and Grint to display some fine acting with the minimalest distraction from any visual effects. The additional time also turns out to be a blessing for fans and audiences, allowing them the opportunity to see their favourite supporting characters back on screen- most prominently of course Dobby the elf who returns to give the movie a touching finale. Amidst the gloom, screenwriter Steve Kloves again provides for rare welcome moments of levity. Harry's escort mission is aided by magical decoys of Harry, one of them wearing a bra. To get to the Ministry of Magic, one needs to flush oneself down a toilet bowl. These occasional sparks of humour enliven a film that is otherwise ominous and menacing. Kloves however fumbles slightly with the lengthy expository, and those who have not read the book will find themselves struggling to catch up with the significance of certain characters (e.g. Sirius' brother, Regulus Arcturus Black) and certain events (e.g. Bathilda turning into a slithering serpent). Still Kloves never had an enviable task to begin with, and Yates- at his most confident here- guides the proceedings along admirably, unfolding them briskly at the start, then settling in for a deliberately measured pace and finally picking up speed for as much as a climax as this first- parter can have. His assuredness also shows in his artistic choices, especially a wayang-kulit-like animated sequence telling the story of the Deathly Hallows. Though we know better than to expect the grand showdown between Harry and Voldemort by the end of the film, there is still a distinct sense that what we have seen so far is only a build-up for something bigger and far more astounding. But even as a prelude, this seventh film is notable in its own right, a tense and thrilling experience darker, scarier and more mature than any of its predecessors

After having seen HP6, I honestly didn't have great expectations in this one. I guessed it would be darker and scarier, as every HP movie has been darker and scarier than its predecessor. But HP6 was such a patchwork of scenes that didn't give you the feeling of a coherent work - I was afraid the even more complex story line of HP7 would make an even less coherent movie. However, I must say it was definitely a wise decision to split the 7th book into 2 movies. HP7 can take time to explain and introduce all the characters that are necessary to the plot.I love the way Voldemort and the Death Eaters are portrayed in this movie. They are no longer just anonymous caped figures. You can see them interacting with each other, discussing and well... being human. Well, I'm always a big fan of the blurring of these clearcut good/evil categories in Fantasy.As the book is split into 2 parts, all of a sudden, there's also time for little embellishments I hadn't realized I had missed in the earlier movies! For example, I loved the scene so much where the feather floated through the air when the fairy tale of the Three Brothers was being told. Also the drawing style that was used during the story was really amazing. This HP movie was the first of all that finally gave me the same feeling as Lord of the Rings did: Boy, this is not just some guys slavishly adapting a book into a movie, but they're actually autonomous artists and they have ideas of their own! And I don't mean they changed the whole plot (I wouldn't like that)! But (mostly visually) they did more than just bring across what's in the book.This also expresses itself in the decision not to include the childish Harry Potter musical theme (at least I didn't hear it, correct me if I'm wrong) from the first movie that sounds like "Wow, everything's so magical here!" That tune was fine for the first movie, but as Harry got older and the movies got darker, it kind of felt like they had to force this theme into every movie several times even though it didn't really fit any more. Now the soundtrack, too, has finally grown up. And I loved it! Last but not least, the acting was brilliant! The tense atmosphere between Harry, Ron and Hermione really came across. Also with all the doppelgänger scenes, you always still saw from their movements and behaviour which character was which though they were in disguise in a different body.All in all, as the title says, this is a excellent grown-up movie and I can recommend it to everyone - except kids! If you have little kids, please don't take them. This movie has far too many scary scenes and little comic relief! Plus, the plot is quit complex including lots and lots of minor characters. It's really no longer a movie targeted at kids, even though it's still labelled "Harry Potter".

"Deathly Hallows Part 1" follows the book closely, but misses out on a few interesting scenes, and then makes up a few additional scenes that are poignant and incredibly welcome. In the beginning, it seems like the film's skipping through the book's content very quickly, but it makes sense, when you realise how much is going on. At the end, the beginning is far away, although the journey there doesn't make it seem like a long while. General opinion seems to be that it drags in the middle, but, let's face it, so did the book. There's no real reason to complain about Endless Camping Trips at all, because the film moves from plot point to set piece to plot point all the time. There's some clever ways the film handles its exposition, although it is not without its faults. The trio's acting is the second best thing in this film. Emma has improved loads over the past few years, and she seems to be at the top of her game in this film. Her acting is stellar. As usual, Grint gets saddled with the role of comic relief, but he also gets his chance to shine in an array of emotional scenes. Daniel manages to carry the story as the main character. The three manage to stand their own very well without the presence of the adult actors.Speaking of adult actors, Nick Morran's Scabior is a delightful character - he's slightly perverted and he has a bit of a Jack Sparrow vibe going on. Peter Mullan's Yaxley was impressive and managed to be quite threatening. It is a shame that we see so little of Bill Nighy's character, the new Minister for Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour. The character was regrettably cut from the previous film, and I wish they hadn't, if only to see more of Nighy's impressive performance. Old-time familiar faces are great, as usual. Fiona Shaw gets but one shot of screen time, but the look in her eyes says so much about her character. Jasoon Isaacs is terrific as a broken and devastated Lucius Malfoy. The lack of Rickman is a shame, but the presence of Bonham Carter makes up for it. Big baddie Ralph Fiennes manages to finally be a menacing, scary Voldemort in the film's first scenes, but as the story progresses and he gets appearances in a few messy, rushed and disappointing visions, Voldemort's actions just don't continue being an ominous cloud of danger, as they should be. The film's greatest achievement, however, is the animated sequence detailing the "Tale of the Three Brothers", an interesting wizard fairytale. It is a daring move from the filmmakers, one that will pleasantly surprise the audience.The biggest letdown is how the film doesn't just keep going. After two-and-a-half hours, it doesn't feel like the story's finished. A few scenes were added to make the climax more exciting, but it's just a downright shame that the movie doesn't just continue for another hour or two.

As Harry and Ron and Hermoine and everyone else has grown up, so have the audiences with the Potter franchise. So it should make some sense that by the time the seventh book has come around that it's coming down to the wire: the big showdown between Harry and the Man-We-Don't-Speak- His-Name, oh, whatever, Voldemort. It's usually that the mid-point movie (i.e. Empire Strikes Back) is the darkest one, but there was a quasi-dark ending to Half-Blood Prince, so it makes more sense that the filmmakers take Rowling's Deathly Hallows and turn it into what it should be: a ripping good apocalypse yarn.I kid a little, but it is a movie with a lot of black contours and desolation, as the trio might be walking through the British version of The Road minus some of the gray-scale photography. That, and the main 'plot' being that Harry has to find the horcruxes, which are items that could be used by Voldemort for very evil purposes. But then the next problem comes as how to destroy them? It's this section of the film, after a very entertaining section where the three go in disguise as full-grown-ups (a funny and intense scene in the Ministry of Magic), that it gets into a rhythm that is not what one would expect in a big- budget holiday blockbuster. A lot of it is sitting around contemplating, waiting, trying to figure things out, and if the audience gets impatient it's not due to the filmmaker's making it bungled but because the characters are having trouble figuring it out too, and we feel for them. Talking with my wife about the books in relation to the movies, I'm told that book seven is meant to be a character piece for a large part of it when they're in the woods (indeed it's something like a hundred pages of these woods scenes with the three, or sometimes two, of them frustrated in figuring out the symbols and suspense of running from the gestapo- like figures of the Dark Lord). But is Rowling as good at characters as she is at clever plots and intricate details of magic? Yes and no. Yes in that she makes good characters that we want to be around (for the most part, sometimes Ron gets on ones nerves), and no in that they are at best two dimensional figures, even with Harry, and there's only so much character to explore. But there are instances where one can excuse the tedium of some of these woods scenes. A moment where Harry and Hermoine have a levity pause and dance to music could be seen as extraneousness, but when it has the music of Nick Cave signing sad blues, why carp?David Yates' direction has found after a few of these movies- Order of the Phoenix still the best of his efforts but not far ahead of this one- and he has a classical style as far as big-budget high-action-adventure movies go in Hollywood. He can let an actor's rhythm speak for itself, and he has a really wonderful scene for a whole mess of top-tier British talent (i.e. Ralph Fiennes, Alan Rickman, Helena Bonham Carter et all) in the opening scene at Voldermort's castle. When it's exciting such as a fast-paced chase in the sky, it's exciting, and when it needs to slow down there's still attention to be paid to what's going down. Only a few points that a non-book reader such as myself such as a wedding scene for a minor character from movies past and a few points of reference for a couple of items or characters get lost on me.This is the kind of production that has great attributes and only a couple of damning liabilities, though the former outweighs the latter. There's a sequence where the story of the Deathly Hallows- how the three men who made deals with death for items and things- is told with a unique animation style that has silhouettes and figures that look like a Tim Burton special. It's one of the most breathtaking passages in any Potter movie, sophisticated to the point of impressing any serious fan of fable-storytelling. But the downsides... well, again, some of the pacing in those woods scenes are less than great. But more than that is a kind of curious aspect to the climax, which without spoiling much involves a character who we've only seen in one other Potter movie (I leave this non-spoiler for those who haven't read the books - those that do know what I mean already), and it's a tragic fate for the character. It's a fine moment of drama, but it lacks the punch that was likely there in the book as it's a character who is barely in the film itself and will need some memory-digging for the character's significance before.But as far as movies where artistic integrity takes place over dumb-loud action and is able to weave visual fx with the practical side of sets and costumes and things with the CGI is very commendable. It's no wonder that Guillermo del-Toro came close to directing this movie, as it appeals to a sensibility that reads the fantastical and supernatural as part of the world, even if one can't see it quite at first. Oh, and the other downside I almost neglected... it's the first part of a two-part finale. It's like getting a half slice of a BIG epic movie, so it's still big, but half-big. But as far as half-slice epics go, it's one of the best in the franchise.

I confess. I read the book about a dozen times in the past few years. It's not like I don't do anything else, but I do. In a year, I probably get through about 25-30 books. So reading HP and the DH was just something I was enjoying. There are clues in various places in the books, and you just have to marvel at how Jo Rowling tied up all the ends so nicely in the last one.The one thing, though, that I felt was off in 7 was how she portrayed Hagrid. In a few cases, it seemed like she was treating him like a buffoon, but that's a personal opinion, not something that critically could be considered wrong with the book.But the last book kept elements close together. It brought in all the old characters, added a few new ones, but basically held together things with bonds of steel. The relationships were both old and new, with a true feeling of family and friendships. And we all celebrated the good times in the book and lamented the bad times.So when Mad-Eye Moody gets killed so early in the book, a feeling of loss goes with him. When Fleur is so happy to be marrying Bill, we're all happy for them both. When we see Kreacher turn from a foul house-elf to a fine house-servant, we're happy for him. When Tonks tells us she is pregnant, we celebrate! But almost none of that is in the movie. We know instinctively that those things happened in the book, but if you haven't read them, you're going to go WTF? an awful lot.Mad-Eye is killed in the chase, but there isn't a toast to this memory. When Fleur is so intense about the wedding, we see no real emotion, but for one brief moment. When the trio leaves Kreacher for their exploits at the ministry, we have no idea how much he has changed. And when Tonks and Lupin go off, there is nothing to suggest the very sad and aching love they have for each other, and about Remus's hesitation about his upcoming fatherhood.There is no investment in these characters in the film. It's like "strip the souls from everyone but Ron, Harry and Hermione, make the others more melodramatic with no attachment to the real story, and voilà! you have Deathly Hallows Part One." I confess: I don't like David Yates' direction. There has been something off about it since OOTP, though I might be one of the few who think that. I think his often amateurish direction is quite obvious in this film. The film is often like a roller coaster, with giddy high points, either in the action or the tone, but there are also many very low points, and there is nothing in the middle. We don't LEARN anything from the characters--we follow them on their journey, yes, but we have to inject too much of the overall plot from the book to see what has been left out, and what is still present. There are times when a collage filming of the many places the trio (and in the middle, the duo) went could get that section speeded up without weighing it down (a friend with me found the middle WAY too slow), and at times, a more polished director could have found ways to make the scenes pack a lot more information into them. It certainly didn't look like the kids weren't eating a whole lot, or how much Hermione actually fit into her small pocketbook. The scene that could have managed that would have been the scene in the book where Hermione packs the full sized painting of Sirius Black's relative, Phinea Black, former headmaster of Hogwarts, into her bag. But it was not to be.I think if there had been a consistent tone during the film, it would have helped bring a more cohesive tone to the film, interlocking all the elements into one. But there wasn't that kind of a feeling in it, and I am disappointed that it didn't happen.I might be one of the very few fans who feels the film wasn't a very good one. Yes, it's only half of a whole, and the second half might be a totally different one, emotionally, and dramatically. But I just need to say to fans, go with the warning that there are a lot of faults with this installment, and accept it just as a nice visual film, with very, very little to do with the entire HP legacy. It probably won't help, and you will be filling in the blanks from the books, but it's certainly better than nothing.

I would like to start off by saying that I am reviewing this movie as simply a movie - none of my opinions here will be associated with the book, and I will not discuss whether or not this film is a good adaptation of the book.
If I had to pick a Harry Potter movie to watch at any given time, I will always suggest this film due to how different it is from every other film in the franchise. It is an excellent movie, not just in the Harry Potter series, but in general due to its cinematography, score, tone, and emotion.
The tone of this movie follows the trend of the films getting progressively darker as they go on, with this film by far being the most depressing yet. Similar to the Half Blood Prince, this film has a dark tint to it, which I think was needed considering the light hearted nature of the first few films. It reminds us that Harry, Ron, and Hermione are no longer kids, and the world is falling apart day by day. The stakes are higher than ever for the Golden Trio as Voldemort rages on.
One of the biggest reasons I love this movie is because its main focus is on the trio, and there is some really good character development here. Ron gets some serious development for once, as we see him explain to a naive Harry that the war against Voldemort is bigger than just him and his world early on. We also see him struggle with the pressure and frustration of the trio's quest to destroy the Horcruxes, and the scene where he returns to Hermione and Harry is quite heart warming. We get to see Hermione try her best to be the glue of the group while Harry and Ron fight it out, but we soon see the stress of their situation get to her as well. It is amazing to see how far the three main characters have grown, and Grint, Watson, and Radcliffe give their best performances yet.
This film has some of the best scenes in the series. I think the wedding sequence was done very well (despite somewhat cringe dialog between Harry and an old woman), as it reminds you that the main cast don't have any time for celebrations anymore. The following scene in a Muggle restaurant was shot stunningly, and the absence of any score really immerses you into the scene.The Ministry of Magic sequence is genuinely hilarious (Ron gets a little too into character), and is every bit enjoyable as it is thrilling towards the end when the three attempt to escape the Ministry. I love every moment of our trio's camping trip, and there are some really gorgeous landscape shots used as transitions. The chase scene through the forest is exhilarating, and again, the lack of score in the scene is gripping. The tales of the three brothers was beautifully animated, and is an example of the several risks that David Yates took in this film. The scene where Harry and Hermione stand in the Godric's Hollow graveyard is one of the best in the series and is quite touching.
A lot of people dislike the infamous Harry and Hermione dance scene, but honestly, I thought it was great. It's an incredibly sad scene as we see how depression has struck our main characters; Harry and Hermione try their best to remember happiness after the devastating loss of their best friend, but it quickly fades as the two snap back to the reality of their depressing situation.
The main criticism of this film seems to be that "it's too slow" or "not much happens", but I would argue that the people who make these comments are missing the point of this movie. This movie is less about the action and more about who Harry, Ron, and Hermione are as people and how they cope with their struggles (even though the action in this movie is great. It's a depressing film, and there are a lot of long shots of the three characters talking to each other because that's the point of this movie. The characters are depressed, finding the Horcruxes seems impossible to them, and as a viewer you experience their frustration. I feel like the production team easily could have made an action packed final film instead of splitting the last two books, but I'm glad they didn't because it allowed for excellent character moments. I am glad that Yates didn't simply go for the easy way out, and that he wasn't afraid to make a slower paced film. And no, this movie wasn't a "cash grab", because it is simply too good of a film to be.
Lastly, I would like to point out that there is and never will be a franchise of the size of the Harry Potter series where all the films are at least decent movies on their own (some of them being outstanding). You will never see another blockbuster series eight films long that has as much artistic integrity as the eight Harry Potter movies, and that's what makes the Harry Potter films so special.

It should be wise for people to at least watch the first six films in order before watching this one, if they haven't read the books already.With this film, we are slowly but surely bidding farewell to one of cinema's most successful and imaginative franchises. The franchise, like Harry Potter himself, has grown and matured as the years (and films) progress. Part I of the "Deathly Hallows" is ultimately a strong build- up to what will be a triumphant, bittersweet finale for everybody.I won't waste time trying to talk about the performances, because they are all great and powerful in their own way. Never mind that many of the cast members are very talented veteran British actors (try getting John Hurt, Alan Rickman, Ralph Fiennes, Brendan Gleeson, David Thewlis, Michael Gambon, Helena Bonham Carter, Imelda Staunton, Jason Isaacs and Bill Nighy in the same film again) - the three young actors who we have come to love and care for following the first film a decade ago, basically carry the franchise on their shoulders, and this film is no exception. Radcliffe looks handsome, Grint looks gruff, and Watson looks gorgeous. They've grown into fine young people.Screenwriter Steve Kloves doesn't forget to add the mood and gloom to the story as it slowly unfolds, but then again he adds some light humor to the film when it needs it. Bonus points for making this not only a visual spectacle, but also a character-driven ensemble; there's some complex characterization here. Also there's some action which aren't seen on screen, but mentioned by the characters. It's OK, because it's necessary for the brisk pacing, and it's not really that important anyways. Besides, the human mind can imagine these images far more powerfully.There are many themes in this film. Sacrifice, determination, (obviously) friendship, and above all - acceptance. As the films progressed the films started to gain an increasingly dark momentum - signaling that all hope may be lost. But in the end, will good triumph over evil? Like the film, real life isn't so sure. Also, the fact that the actors and crew are moving on after a decade of making these films - it's also another way of acceptance - the films have ended, they're moving on for the better of their lives/careers. It's real life, and I wish all these promising young actors brilliant lives and careers ahead of them."Hallows: Part I" is many parts thrilling, as there are quite a number of intense action sequences. Many of them, of course, are done with well-rendered visual effects, and in this one they just blend in at a natural level without being too jarring. However, the action sequences are perfectly blended in with the gripping, dramatic moments. They don't feel heavy handed and it's beautiful to look at. The animated sequence about the origins of the Deathly Hallows is an absolute masterclass and jaw-droppingly beautiful to both watch and listen. If separated by itself it can win an Oscar for best animated short. The crew also get their due here. David Yates has gotten a firm grip on the film's direction since directing the fifth and sixth films years ago. The cinematography is stunning and exquisite, and it gives off a certain moody hue to the film. The editing is also crisp, it's not choppy when it doesn't need to be. Alexandre Desplat's score really makes a difference, it literally puts you into the world with its beautiful, harmonious, and emotional tones.In short, I would have to say that this film is the best "Harry Potter: film yet in all honesty. I grew up with the series, and as per the actors, it will be an emotional goodbye. But rest assured, the finale will be grand.One more thing. This interpretation of the novel is the best one yet. The novel is done justice, something not seen since the first three films. It's something for both the fans and novel-readers alike, as there are some pieces only book readers can discover while watching the film. It's definitely a huge improvement over "Half-Blood Prince"'s adaptation, which for me is the worst Potter film.Harry Potter is a phenomenon. But, like all things, it most come to an end eventually. This is the beginning of the end, and I wouldn't have it any other way.Overall rating: 75/100P.S.:Eat your hearts out, Twi-hards.

In my mind, the Deathly Hallows Part 1 captured the feeling of exactly what the Harry Potter movies should have been all along: gritty, emotional, and cinematic. I haven't been a huge fan of any of the HP movies to date, but I was pleased with the Deathly Hallows because it took a big step up in maturity from the "children's fantasy" genre and focused on themes very central to the seventh book: hopelessness and desperation. After the death of Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore, the magical world falls into disarray as Voldemort gains power over the Ministry of Magic and hunts tirelessly after his mortal enemy and our continuing protagonist, Harry Potter. While keeping a low cover, Harry, Ron, and Hermoine decide to track down and destroy Voldemort's soul contained in hidden "horcruxes" but have difficulties deciding what to do and where to start.The Deathly Hallows very successfully portrays the despair-filled journey of the wizarding trio. With dark undertones running through the cinematography, Part 1 of the Harry Potter finale is the film that deals more with the emotional stagnation of the characters and spends less time with action scenes and major plot points. Since Rowling's seventh book is separated into two movies, Part 1 boasts a much slower pace than earlier HP films and is not so focused on cramming as many subplots and side-stories from the book as possible into the movie's runtime, which tends to clutter up the storyline and make the whole thing feel rushed. But where the slow pacing makes this film stand out in the series, it also may be its downfall. The Deathly Hallows continually feeds us a feeling of desolation as Harry, Ron and Hermoine fail to discover a way to destroy the horcruxes; they seem to be making no progress towards defeating the Dark Lord, but as an effect the movie seems to be making no progress towards an ending. Storyline lags intensely towards the middle of the film and is dragged out until the conclusion (which ends abruptly). You'll be left in your seats feeling like this is going nowhere- but that's the point: Harry, Ron, and Hermoine are getting nowhere. So I liked this movie because the pace was slow, but I also didn't like this movie because the pace was slow. See what I'm getting at? Aside from that, I can't complain much. Performances were fine, effects were impressive, and best of all, nothing dastardly was done to J.K. Rowling's story.The Deathly Hallows: Part 1 is a nice improvement and a fine addition to the Harry Potter series and should serve as a solid emotional base for Part 2 to take off with next year. If you've enjoyed the HP movies so far, this should be a satisfying experience at least. If not, let the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 redeem your faith in the series. 7/10P.S. Keep on the lookout for the scene about the deathly hallows story. It has some of the most beautiful and artistic animation I have ever seen in a movie.

As far as cinematic performance goes it wasn't so bad, however i can't say too much about it because i feel the bias of me being such a huge fan of the book might influence my review. However this review is meant for those hardcore harry potter fans. I was very disappointed throughout the whole movie, not that the movie was poorly done or anything, but the one thing i felt was the biggest flaw in the movie was they kind of rushed everything and they kind of left some important parts to the movie, not just in terms of story line but emotional depth that you feel when you read the book but of course this could be my bias talking. I have heard some people who haven't read the book say this movie was fantastic so i would say that the movie does somewhat compensate for the rushed story line with a fantastic movie yet i was still not completely satisfied. I understand the previous movies were made before the 7th book was even published so its difficult for the writers and producers to get in the mind of J.K rowling and put in every detail that will be important later yet i felt that those details that got left out and that were squeezed into the 7th movie kind of made it seem like in order for it to be included they had to take out some stuff. For instance they barely introduced Bill, which should have been done in the 4th movie, and they barely introduce mundungus which should have been done during the 5th movie, so we kind of lose essence what kind of character bill and mundungus are, and i feel this detail is what made the wedding in the movie seem so unimportant which was actually an important detail in the book because the wedding did a lot of stuff for the story, by having krum it introduces Ron's jealousy in the story, and also provides detail about gregorovitch the wandmaker, and shows the controversy of the mark on luna's dad's necklace and also contributes to harry's curiosity to dumbledore's life. also in the beginning scene when they're transporting harry they made hedwig dying as a giveaway to the real harry instead of the explleriamus charm in the book which is more symbolic. anyways thats just some of the things that i felt shouldn't have been changed, there are a lot more. So my advice is if you read the book don't expect this movie to match your expectations because its understandable that they have to consider the audience that doesn't read the book, but overall i guess this movie was pretty good.

I guess I expected a lot more from this film - it's long and drug out way to long on unnecessary scenes like the wedding for example. I realize this is a two part film but to drag out the first film with a bunch of filler scenes really bored me.I never thought I would dislike a Harry Potter film - but this one does not interest me. The first films were fun - this one is simply boring to me.5/10.

Just for the record, I love the books(for a while Philosopher's Stone was a huge favourite of mine) and I personally like the films. None of them are masterpieces, but they are likable, entertaining and I think well made too. I saw Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1 with high expectations, there were many friends of mine who said it was brilliant and the best yet. After seeing it with my family last night I have to say Amen! This was a wonderful film in my opinion, and it does a very good job sticking to a mammoth story. I also think they made the right decision splitting it into two parts, if they hadn't the result I think would have been too rushed.If I do have a criticism here, I do agree that the pacing is rather slow. I think it started and ended brilliantly, it was the middle where it dragged with a lot of admiring the scenery. As beautiful as it was, it didn't admit much to the story.Criticism aside, I adored the production values. The darker scenes were indeed dark and somewhat bleak, especially the beginning at Malfoy Manor where it looked like a film noir, while the scenery in the middle of the film was gorgeous. The music was another delight, it was sweeping, grandiose, majestic, for me the most complex and most atmospheric of all the Harry Potter movie scores. The script is an improvement too, not that it was terrible in the other movies, but especially I thought the humour was better judged(ie. Moody's comment about the polyjuice potion), while the story despite the slow pacing was never less than engrossing.There are a few scenes too that I especially liked. One was Dobby's death, I thought it was heart-rending. Dobby was so lovable and funny, and in this instalment cute too I think(loved the trainers), although I knew it was going to happen I couldn't help shedding tears. I think what got me were his last words, they were so poetic and touching. Another was Godric's Hollow, like the former I knew it was coming but it was done in an atmospheric and unnerving way I couldn't help jump. I was also taken with the first "obliviate" scene, the regret in Hermione's face and voice made it incredibly poignant, while the 7 Potters chase was both funny and thrilling. My favourite though was the Three Brothers animated sequence. I was wondering how they were going to do that, and after seeing that scene I have to applaud the writers. It was a clever and beautifully done sequence, with some haunting images especially with death. Harry and Hermione's dance got mixed reactions in the cinema, some thought it was awkward and others like me liked it, at that one I thought they were going to kiss which I don't think would have gone down well.Yates's direction is also much better than it has been. It wasn't bad in the other two films, but here it looked as though he took real charge, and all the pivotal scenes here were in general wonderfully handled. The acting is mostly very good. Daniel Radcliffe is likable enough, and Rupert Grint has great comic timing. Emma Watson I think gives her best performance of the series so far and she steals every scene she's in, while Alan Rickman while not in much is deliciously suave and dour. The two standouts for me were Helena Bonham Carter, whose Bellatrix was powerful and sometimes even scary and Ralph Fiennes who was really quite creepy sometimes without saying much at all. Bill Nighy's Scrimgeour is good but not as memorable, while I do think they wasted the Dursleys.Overall, a rock solid film that ended in a perfect place and my personal favourite of the series so far. In fact, it makes me all the more excited for the next. 9/10 Bethany Cox.

First of all, I'm a person who has read the HP series several times over so I do know what I'm talking about. Good: This is by far one of the best " stuck to the book & plot " harry potter movies.The scenery and views are beautifully stunning most of the time ( Norwegian valleys and lakes ) but sometimes its a bit Tesco value really ( yeah i mean the bit when they're running away from the snatchers who happen to be chasing them in Bracknell, Berkshire just behind the lookout adventure park ) By far the darkest potter movie so far.The film is more grown up, responsibility and love of family are at heart of this film especially during turmoil in relationships. This is where the good stuff ends ( yeah really not much is there )Bad:This movie is over 2 and a half hours long. Thats over 150 minutes ! its not good enough to have a 5minute action scene with a bit of spell bashing and exploding dishes and furniture and then have 30 minutes of book reading or guarding a tent. Honestly at some points my eyes where wondering to corners of the screen where I was hoping i would find something more interesting. It was very dull for a lot of the time, how can they have got it so wrong??!! A dull harry potter movie? You need some skill to achieve that, heres why..I felt COMPLETELY and utterly unconnected to the actors. There was no connection or chemistry between the actors and the audience, I was left completely cold. Now I know for a fact from the earlier movies that these actors CAN have a definite relationship between the audience and yet there was none, not a single scene left me emotionally connected.This applies to people who haven't read the book, what was Yates thinking ?!? how creative is it to have a fight scene, then the 3 disappear to another place, wait around 30 minutes, another fight or chase then they disappear to a different location. ON 3 DIFFERENT OCCASIONS??!! what message does that send to the audience ? Yeh we've wrapped up 5 films nicely, now lets just milk the audience from their cash. Because that is exactly where this is heading, 6 was atrociously bad but at least it had some humour. This barely has that, apart from Dobby clinging onto Mungundus and a few awkwardly funny moments with Ron and Hermione the amount of humour was next to none. Yes its a much darker and more scarier ( supposedly ) than the others, but there was no tension or excitement. The build up times where almost ridiculous and when you got the peak of the tension there wasn't anything to get your heart racing, or anything you wouldn't expect. 'YAWN' a snake jumps from a whole and tries to eat harry after 10 minutes of him and Hermione creeping around in a dark house full of flies and blood 'YAWN'I'm so disappointed, all the hype, all the production time and its barely better than number 6. And that is really poor because 6 was a disgrace if I'm honest. The best book was made to appeal to 14 year old girls who'd giggle at the love & relationships throughout the movie. Really if they want to step it up they have to make a 15 and actually make it gruesome and scary at times when it needs to be ! Not to have a 10 minute lead up to a snake attacking harry and biting a chair leg !!( pathetic ) Finally, I cant believe at the amount of good press and reviews this has, are you all out of your mind ?! I tried to look at this in every possible way, HP fan, non HP fan, book fan, non book fan. FROM EVERY ANGLE this movie was long winded, dull, acted without enough feel & passion and poorly directed. And yes I have taken into consideration the fact this is part 1 of the book, and part 2 will definitely be more exciting, but it really seems as if they looked at the feedback from HP 6 and went ' yep the audience didn't like it when we made up stuff, lets stick to the book ' so they stuck the book in the most uncreative, utterly boring story telling fashion. There was no sparkle or anything special setting this apart from the other movies. Think about it, HP1: introduction to the world of magic, everything is new, epic set of tasks which young harry, Ron and Hermione conquered. HP 2 : Epic Quiddich and fight with the Basilisk, HP3: Epic death eater scene and true identity of Sirius. black HP4: Epic maze and Voldemorts ' reincarnation ' HP5: Epic battle, emotional death of Sirius & Dumbledores EPIC fight with Voldemort. HP6: Ehhh, epic flop ? HP7 P1: Epic directing & acting fail ?MASSIVE disappointment for someone who paid in excess of £15 to watch this and has eagerly waited for months.5/10 is extremely generous and only awarded because I've always been a HP fan and I love the books and previous movies especially 4&5 which were fantastic. To be fair 50% doesn't even reflect the amount of money I'd pay to watch this, because If i'd known, 5 quid would've been absolute limit.This is not a bash but really a set of details in what went wrong in the movie, I'm not saying I'm an expert of any sort, but really they should and they CAN do better, we have proof of that earlier on in the series. There were positives, but for a film of this magnitude, this expensive and this famous, it ought to be MUCH better.

POSITIVES:1) The first six films could definitely be accused of being repetitive in their formula (start off outside Hogwarts, then spend the bulk of the film at Hogwarts, then leave Hogwarts again at the end). This film makes the brave and refreshing move of taking place entirely outside of Hogwarts, which I think was needed after six films
2) This film is certainly the darkest of the series, but I'd also say it's the most gritty. This is a key distinction, as it's not just the fact that it's dark, it's the fact that the use of magic is relatively sparing and the film actually feels mostly plausible, compared to the others which feature a lot more fantastical elements
3) Dobby's death was absolutely heartbreaking and makes me emotional every time I see it. This must've been my roughly fifth time seeing this, but I was still welling up
4) The story of the three brothers was visualised well. I think it's largely because so much of this film has a bleak grey colour palette, so the three brothers story feels like a welcome beacon of lightNEGATIVES:1) As the title of this review suggests, there's just so much of this film that feels like it's doing nothing to actually move the story forward, and is instead just filling time. It's the first time since the first couple of films where I've really felt bored for long periods of the film
2) Harry and Ron's teen angst was really annoying and turned me off from the film a lot
3) Mad-Eye dying off screen and barely getting a mention was very underwhelming
4) It felt quite lazy that a lot of the plot advancements in this film are made through high convenience. Harry gets multiple visions of Voldemort that help him figure out what to do. They figure out Umbridge has the locket solely because she happens to be on the front cover of a newspaper that's next to them at the time. They learn about the deathly hallows because they met someone who had a necklace with the symbol on earlier in the film.

*complete spoilers*The first scenes went something like this: Everyone drinks a nasty potion that makes them look like Harry and they get undressed on camera spouting anti-climatic, fast-paced jokes. Then in what *should* have been an exciting chase-scene, Hedwig plummets to her death. Harry is traumatized. Later he learns Mad-Eyes also died and, not giving him much thought, 'zips Ginny up' in and abrupt oh-so-passionate-scene with as much charisma and heart as a toaster.Harry then meets a witch who tells him bad things about Dumbledore which he instantly believes even though he's known her for all of, what, ten seconds, and Harry falls into a depression. Kinsgley warns the wedding party (oops, I forget to mention. Ron's brother Bill is getting married. y'know, Bill? That one Weasley child no one ever mentioned or casted? Him.) So, anyways, Voldemort took over the ministry (how exactly we'll never know) and is coming to kill everyone harry cares about (like Ginny. he does care about her y'know. they had their first love scene which lasted five seconds and was witness by George, who had a toothbrush in his ear.) So Harry, Hermione, and Ron run away because Hermione is a flipping genius who always saves their butts with advanced magic and bottomless purses.Okay. The action stops here.Now we are privileged to enjoy stunning landscapes and breathtaking landscapes of famous places all around the UK where the dynamic trio (make that duo: Ron leaves) set up camp. The audience is delighted to be separated from the rest of the plot and action-packed, intense moments happening in the outside world, and instead can focus their attention on the beauty of a certain tree that harry and Hermione are sitting under and discussing the evils of Dumbledore, the man who ruined everything.Hermione finds a doodle in a book and Harry and Hermione determine it MUST be a hint in a Blue's-Clues like moment of epiphany. Ignoring their new sense of purpose (besides finding lovely lakes to vacation by) Harry risks it all to return to Godric's Hollw and is there (unwittingly) attacked by a snake...lady...thing. They escape (Hermione, cough, cough) and return to their picturesque campsite.In the middle of the night Harry sees a patronus and, since of course NO ONE wants to kill him, deceive him, maul him, etc. He follows it like a complete nitwit. Luckily his hunch is correct and he arrives at a frozen lake, undresses, and takes a dip. A dark locket proceeds to choke him (why it couldn't choke him above-water, I haven't the faintest idea) but Harry is saved by Ron, who also manages to get his shirt off. With the sword of Godric, the two (still wet) decide to destroy the locket that so fiendishly attempted to strangle Harry (naughty object of darkness and evil).And then...Ron bears witness to a porn scene between Harry and Hermione who are inexplicably making out naked. (It is a very emotional scene.) Ron, fighting past the ridiculous apparition, smashes the locket to a million pieces and Harry and Ron return to Hermione and Ron spews some nonsense about a bubble of light in his heart.The three reunited, they reluctantly leave their gorgeous campgrounds to track down a madman in hopes of finding out the mysterious meaning of Dumbledore's Doodle. The madman is only too happy to oblige and tells them it is a very important symbol of a fairy tale, so now that they have this info their problems are over. Next the audience is treated to a Tim-Burton-like animated retelling of said fairy tale that TOTALLY goes with the movie (not). The madman then attempts to capture them but they escape (Hermione COUGH COUGH) but are captured by icky "men" who seem more interested in Hermione than in getting a reward for Harry Potter. The Icky "Men" take the trio to where Voldemort lives but Voldemort is away for the time being and will return momentarily, in the mean time won't you have a seat in this lovely damp prison cell while Bellatrix attempts to torture Hermione by biting her neck or whatever it is that she's doing?Voldemort doesn't show up (it's a *very* long holiday he's taking and he can't be disturbed) but Dobby does. Dobby's voice has undergone reverse-puberty, but that doesn't matter because Dobby has come to save Harry Potter because Dobby can materialize in and out of places, even the dark Lord's secret hideout.So Dobby rescues them (Luna and a Goblin in addition to the trio. Her dad was the madman I'm afraid. Yes, sad really how family units are organized.) Anyhow, Bellatrix stands there watching them escape and at the last moment throws a good-old-fashioned dagger into the air where they're disappearing and when they come out the other end Dobby says some lame last words in a girly voice and perishes, with Harry crying unconvincingly. Fade to black and Voldemort pops up (who's taken the failed capture of his worst enemy rather well, given the circumstances) and desecrates Dumbledore's tomb (and Dumbledore is amazingly fresh and un-decomposed) and takes Dumbledore's wand. He shoots a random red flare into the sky that serves no purpose whatsoever and the credits roll. Finally.Part 2. How exciting!

The last book in the Harry Potter saga has been split into two parts. At first, maybe people would think it is to squeeze some more financial mileage out of the series. On the other hand, having watched this installment, there is simply too much complex storytelling involved in this book to cram it into only one two and half hour movie.This Part 1 is already a very full two and half hours. The drama begins even before the opening credits roll. The special effects have reached a new high point with the trick of using polyjuice potion to create multiple Harry's. The frenetic escape of Harry in Hagrid's motor sidecar is an achievement in action editing. The trio's penetration of the Ministry of Magic to get the locket horcrux is very exciting and tension-filled.Momentum dips a bit in the midsection as our trio scour the English wilderness for a way to destroy the horcrux. This prolonged section, which some may find boring, dealt more with the personal relationships loyalty of the three friends as challenges are thrown their way. The segment is marked by the hard-to-watch bloodlust of Bellatrix Lestrange and the nobility of Dobby. Watch out too for a most unexpected dance scene which will surely make you smile, if not actually chuckle!In the third section, we learn what the "deathly hallows" are referred to in the title as our trio learns it from Xenophilius Lovegood. But the main highlight here is a most amazing animated short featurette called "The Tale of Three Brothers" as narrated by Hermione. This Part 1 ends very well with a sky-splitting final cliffhanger sequence.Its been repeatedly mentioned how the main actors Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have all grown up in front of our eyes as this movie series unfolded. Rupert and Emma are both taller than Daniel already! Acting-wise, everyone had likewise improved very much. They all even show some skin here. Yes, even Hermione! The support from the esteemed gallery of British actors and actresses serve the film very well indeed. We saw everyone from all the previous films it seems, except for Maggie Smith.The direction of David Yates is excellent as he did in the last two films. Yates and screenwriter Steve Kloves got just the proper mix of action, drama and humor needed to make the saga work on screen. This may just be a set-up installment, however, it stands very strong on its own merits. As the last scene faded to black, the audience will definitely develop the resolve to watch out for the concluding part to be released next summer, and witness the epic Battle of Hogwarts.

Almost a decade has passed since Harry first encountered Hogwarts. The long anticipated battle between Harry and Voldemort is drawing near. Hogwarts has become no more safe haven. The Ministry has set Harry as a fugitive. The beginning of the end has begun. First, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1" is the seventh film in the Harry Potter series based on the first half of the book. It is as usual dark in a David-Yates- Style. In its whole 146-minute run, "Deathly Hallows" follows Harry, Hermione and Ron who are on the run from the MInistry of Magic now controlled by the bald-looking, dangerous, evil Voldemort as well as trying to locate and destroy Voldemort's remaining Horcruxes as explained in "Half-Blood Prince". "Deathly Hallows" will introduce several new characters and they include Xenophilius Lovegood and Rufus Scrmigeour. Xenophilius Lovegood is undoubtedly Luna Lovegood's father. While Rufus Scrmigeour is the Minister until the Death Eaters swarm in the Minister. "Deathly Hallows" also sees the return of our beloved characters such as Dobby and Kreacher, the house elves. "Deathly Hallows" will not only introduce new characters but also new locations and they include the Malfoy Manor, where the Malfoys live. We will also see Harry, Ron and Hermione in the mortal world rather than the magical world for around half of the book such as Tottenham Court Road.A note for Harry Potter fans, you will not see Harry, Hermione and Ron in Hogwarts anymore. There will be no Quidditch games, Fred and George's shop, love potion problems or even their friends although Neville and Luna appear in small roles. So, "Deathly Hallows: Part 1" is really dark than the previous films and there will be no happy moments. But, the movie will still have some jokes, funny ones to cheer up scenes which are too heart-breaking.The movie will also see some emotional scenes that will show growth in the characters especially Ron. The relationship between Hermione and Ron would be a little bit threatened due to the quest and of course, a bit of Harry. The performances by the actors and actresses actually match the Oscar standards I would say. Emma Watson shows growth in her acting and seemed confident than ever. Rupert Grint showed some growth in his acting too by the emotional scenes given. Daniel Radcliffe seemed even more confident but was a bit less in depth compared to the other two. Overall, the movie consists of remarkable acting performances. But, I would say the one who performed best was as always from the fifth film, Helena Bonham Carter or known as the wicked Bellatrix Lestrange. The acting was totally perfect not to mention the remarkable acting contribution from Imelda Staunton or better known as Dolores Umbridge.Exciting and thrilling, I really enjoyed the film. It was dark, brilliant and perfect. Although a bit slow-paced, I still really enjoyed the film. I don't think it will disappoint any one even its book's fans. Even though the scenes were re-arranged while some excluded, it was still acceptable and as a reader of the book, I really appreciated the changes. So, book fans of the series, you wouldn't be too disappointed with the movie as the movie was loyal enough to the book. Also, the film ends with a horrifying scene related to Voldemort and it makes you have the creeps. But, that all ends in Part 2, doesn't it?Thank you David Yates for creating a very dark and amazing film. Can't wait for Part 2! Prince AJB's Score: 10/10Thanks for reading my review on "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1". Hope it's useful to you.

Up until now, I was convinced that from the 4th book onwards, Harry Potter-books had become too complex to make into film: Goblet of Fire was a sore disappointment. Order of the Phoenix left many Potterheads wanting more, even if it wasn't a bad film per se (personally I thoroughly enjoyed it, even though I felt they left out too much). Half-blood Prince -while visually stunning- did not capture the brilliance of the book. With "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows", I think the makers have finally succeeded in crafting a movie that was both fun to watch for casual viewers while also catering to the needs of the hard-core fans who know the books by heart. The decision to split the movie into two parts may be judged as a financial one by some, but I'm convinced it was the only possible way to make this work. The movie was cut off at the perfect time as well, having the viewers yearn for more without being too abrupt.I don't want to give away anything, so I'll just say this: Hats of to you, David Yates. One can only hope the second installment will continue in the same vein...

A sullen Minister of Magic Rufus Scrimgeour (Bill Nighy) sets the mood for this seventh and penultimate instalment of Harry Potter. "These are dark times, there's no denying," he intones gravely, pointing out the grim state of affairs facing the nation- murders, disappearances and raids- but reassuring the public, as any politician would, that his Ministry has it all under control. Of course, he is only bluffing, and it doesn't take long before the palpable sense of doom and despair convinces you otherwise. Welcome back to the magical world of Harry Potter, one that began with wonder and joy, but has since become shrouded in death and darkness. Still visibly distraught from the death of his mentor Professor Albus Dumbledore, Harry is now tasked to continue with the mission of the late Dumbledore- to find and destroy the remaining Horcruxes (accursed objects containing fragments of Voldemort's soul). It doesn't get any easier, since Voldemort is nearing the height of his powers, and his bidders have infiltrated the bureaucracy to paint Harry as a wanted criminal. There are fewer and fewer allies around- even those within the Order of the Phoenix may have since betrayed their ranks- and the first half hour quickly establishes the danger and urgency of the situation at hand. Members of the Order, including Mad-Eye Moody (Brendan Gleeson) and Hagrid (Robbie Coltrane), attempt to escort Harry to safety- but even that mission is met with an attack from the Death Eaters, culminating in a dizzyingly exciting high-speed flying-bike chase that shouldn't disappoint fans looking for some action sorely missed in the last movie. Indeed, naysayers who think David Yates doesn't know how to stage thrilling action sequences should think again, as he demonstrates amply that he is just as capable when it comes to staging them. He also displays an uncanny knack for milking suspense out of scenes- in particular, Harry, Hermoine and Ron's daring raid on the Ministry of Magic and their subsequent visit to Godric's Hollow, Harry's birthplace and home to Bathilda Bagshot, a magician and dear friend to Dumbledore. These brim with nail-biting tension, and Yates plays them out nicely to set your pulse racing at the end. The crux of this film however lies in the relationships between Harry, Hermoine and Ron as they set off in the middle of the film across the bleak English countryside on their quest to discover the means to destroy the Horcruxes. On the run from Voldemort, the trio find the immensity of their journey taking a toll on them. Harry and Ron's friendship begins to fray as Ron grows suspect of Hermoine's affections for Harry. Meanwhile, Harry can barely conceal his frustration with getting no headway and starts losing his temper at Ron. Infused with a profound sense of isolation and loss, this middle stretch in the film may be tedious for some impatient viewers, but fans will be rewarded with probably the richest depiction of the relationships between the characters since the first two movies. One scene where Harry and Hermoine suddenly decide to dance together to the tune of Nick Cave's The Children playing on the radio is lyrical in its depiction of their desperate attempt to find levity in a world that affords none. Yes, their friendship strong and deep since the beginning will be tested, and Yates delivers an emotional payoff towards the end of the film that is truly poignant. Thanks to the decision to split the final book into two films, Yates doesn't hurry through these scenes. Instead, he allows the audience to experience the frustration, jealousy and uncertainty of his characters, and allows for Radcliffe, Watson and Grint to display some fine acting with the minimalest distraction from any visual effects. The additional time also turns out to be a blessing for fans and audiences, allowing them the opportunity to see their favourite supporting characters back on screen- most prominently of course Dobby the elf who returns to give the movie a touching finale. Amidst the gloom, screenwriter Steve Kloves again provides for rare welcome moments of levity. Harry's escort mission is aided by magical decoys of Harry, one of them wearing a bra. To get to the Ministry of Magic, one needs to flush oneself down a toilet bowl. These occasional sparks of humour enliven a film that is otherwise ominous and menacing. Kloves however fumbles slightly with the lengthy expository, and those who have not read the book will find themselves struggling to catch up with the significance of certain characters (e.g. Sirius' brother, Regulus Arcturus Black) and certain events (e.g. Bathilda turning into a slithering serpent). Still Kloves never had an enviable task to begin with, and Yates- at his most confident here- guides the proceedings along admirably, unfolding them briskly at the start, then settling in for a deliberately measured pace and finally picking up speed for as much as a climax as this first- parter can have. His assuredness also shows in his artistic choices, especially a wayang-kulit-like animated sequence telling the story of the Deathly Hallows. Though we know better than to expect the grand showdown between Harry and Voldemort by the end of the film, there is still a distinct sense that what we have seen so far is only a build-up for something bigger and far more astounding. But even as a prelude, this seventh film is notable in its own right, a tense and thrilling experience darker, scarier and more mature than any of its predecessors

After having seen HP6, I honestly didn't have great expectations in this one. I guessed it would be darker and scarier, as every HP movie has been darker and scarier than its predecessor. But HP6 was such a patchwork of scenes that didn't give you the feeling of a coherent work - I was afraid the even more complex story line of HP7 would make an even less coherent movie. However, I must say it was definitely a wise decision to split the 7th book into 2 movies. HP7 can take time to explain and introduce all the characters that are necessary to the plot.I love the way Voldemort and the Death Eaters are portrayed in this movie. They are no longer just anonymous caped figures. You can see them interacting with each other, discussing and well... being human. Well, I'm always a big fan of the blurring of these clearcut good/evil categories in Fantasy.As the book is split into 2 parts, all of a sudden, there's also time for little embellishments I hadn't realized I had missed in the earlier movies! For example, I loved the scene so much where the feather floated through the air when the fairy tale of the Three Brothers was being told. Also the drawing style that was used during the story was really amazing. This HP movie was the first of all that finally gave me the same feeling as Lord of the Rings did: Boy, this is not just some guys slavishly adapting a book into a movie, but they're actually autonomous artists and they have ideas of their own! And I don't mean they changed the whole plot (I wouldn't like that)! But (mostly visually) they did more than just bring across what's in the book.This also expresses itself in the decision not to include the childish Harry Potter musical theme (at least I didn't hear it, correct me if I'm wrong) from the first movie that sounds like "Wow, everything's so magical here!" That tune was fine for the first movie, but as Harry got older and the movies got darker, it kind of felt like they had to force this theme into every movie several times even though it didn't really fit any more. Now the soundtrack, too, has finally grown up. And I loved it! Last but not least, the acting was brilliant! The tense atmosphere between Harry, Ron and Hermione really came across. Also with all the doppelgänger scenes, you always still saw from their movements and behaviour which character was which though they were in disguise in a different body.All in all, as the title says, this is a excellent grown-up movie and I can recommend it to everyone - except kids! If you have little kids, please don't take them. This movie has far too many scary scenes and little comic relief! Plus, the plot is quit complex including lots and lots of minor characters. It's really no longer a movie targeted at kids, even though it's still labelled "Harry Potter".

"Deathly Hallows Part 1" follows the book closely, but misses out on a few interesting scenes, and then makes up a few additional scenes that are poignant and incredibly welcome. In the beginning, it seems like the film's skipping through the book's content very quickly, but it makes sense, when you realise how much is going on. At the end, the beginning is far away, although the journey there doesn't make it seem like a long while. General opinion seems to be that it drags in the middle, but, let's face it, so did the book. There's no real reason to complain about Endless Camping Trips at all, because the film moves from plot point to set piece to plot point all the time. There's some clever ways the film handles its exposition, although it is not without its faults. The trio's acting is the second best thing in this film. Emma has improved loads over the past few years, and she seems to be at the top of her game in this film. Her acting is stellar. As usual, Grint gets saddled with the role of comic relief, but he also gets his chance to shine in an array of emotional scenes. Daniel manages to carry the story as the main character. The three manage to stand their own very well without the presence of the adult actors.Speaking of adult actors, Nick Morran's Scabior is a delightful character - he's slightly perverted and he has a bit of a Jack Sparrow vibe going on. Peter Mullan's Yaxley was impressive and managed to be quite threatening. It is a shame that we see so little of Bill Nighy's character, the new Minister for Magic, Rufus Scrimgeour. The character was regrettably cut from the previous film, and I wish they hadn't, if only to see more of Nighy's impressive performance. Old-time familiar faces are great, as usual. Fiona Shaw gets but one shot of screen time, but the look in her eyes says so much about her character. Jasoon Isaacs is terrific as a broken and devastated Lucius Malfoy. The lack of Rickman is a shame, but the presence of Bonham Carter makes up for it. Big baddie Ralph Fiennes manages to finally be a menacing, scary Voldemort in the film's first scenes, but as the story progresses and he gets appearances in a few messy, rushed and disappointing visions, Voldemort's actions just don't continue being an ominous cloud of danger, as they should be. The film's greatest achievement, however, is the animated sequence detailing the "Tale of the Three Brothers", an interesting wizard fairytale. It is a daring move from the filmmakers, one that will pleasantly surprise the audience.The biggest letdown is how the film doesn't just keep going. After two-and-a-half hours, it doesn't feel like the story's finished. A few scenes were added to make the climax more exciting, but it's just a downright shame that the movie doesn't just continue for another hour or two.

I would like to start off by saying that I am reviewing this movie as simply a movie - none of my opinions here will be associated with the book, and I will not discuss whether or not this film is a good adaptation of the book.
If I had to pick a Harry Potter movie to watch at any given time, I will always suggest this film due to how different it is from every other film in the franchise. It is an excellent movie, not just in the Harry Potter series, but in general due to its cinematography, score, tone, and emotion.
The tone of this movie follows the trend of the films getting progressively darker as they go on, with this film by far being the most depressing yet. Similar to the Half Blood Prince, this film has a dark tint to it, which I think was needed considering the light hearted nature of the first few films. It reminds us that Harry, Ron, and Hermione are no longer kids, and the world is falling apart day by day. The stakes are higher than ever for the Golden Trio as Voldemort rages on.
One of the biggest reasons I love this movie is because its main focus is on the trio, and there is some really good character development here. Ron gets some serious development for once, as we see him explain to a naive Harry that the war against Voldemort is bigger than just him and his world early on. We also see him struggle with the pressure and frustration of the trio's quest to destroy the Horcruxes, and the scene where he returns to Hermione and Harry is quite heart warming. We get to see Hermione try her best to be the glue of the group while Harry and Ron fight it out, but we soon see the stress of their situation get to her as well. It is amazing to see how far the three main characters have grown, and Grint, Watson, and Radcliffe give their best performances yet.
This film has some of the best scenes in the series. I think the wedding sequence was done very well (despite somewhat cringe dialog between Harry and an old woman), as it reminds you that the main cast don't have any time for celebrations anymore. The following scene in a Muggle restaurant was shot stunningly, and the absence of any score really immerses you into the scene.The Ministry of Magic sequence is genuinely hilarious (Ron gets a little too into character), and is every bit enjoyable as it is thrilling towards the end when the three attempt to escape the Ministry. I love every moment of our trio's camping trip, and there are some really gorgeous landscape shots used as transitions. The chase scene through the forest is exhilarating, and again, the lack of score in the scene is gripping. The tales of the three brothers was beautifully animated, and is an example of the several risks that David Yates took in this film. The scene where Harry and Hermione stand in the Godric's Hollow graveyard is one of the best in the series and is quite touching.
A lot of people dislike the infamous Harry and Hermione dance scene, but honestly, I thought it was great. It's an incredibly sad scene as we see how depression has struck our main characters; Harry and Hermione try their best to remember happiness after the devastating loss of their best friend, but it quickly fades as the two snap back to the reality of their depressing situation.
The main criticism of this film seems to be that "it's too slow" or "not much happens", but I would argue that the people who make these comments are missing the point of this movie. This movie is less about the action and more about who Harry, Ron, and Hermione are as people and how they cope with their struggles (even though the action in this movie is great. It's a depressing film, and there are a lot of long shots of the three characters talking to each other because that's the point of this movie. The characters are depressed, finding the Horcruxes seems impossible to them, and as a viewer you experience their frustration. I feel like the production team easily could have made an action packed final film instead of splitting the last two books, but I'm glad they didn't because it allowed for excellent character moments. I am glad that Yates didn't simply go for the easy way out, and that he wasn't afraid to make a slower paced film. And no, this movie wasn't a "cash grab", because it is simply too good of a film to be.
Lastly, I would like to point out that there is and never will be a franchise of the size of the Harry Potter series where all the films are at least decent movies on their own (some of them being outstanding). You will never see another blockbuster series eight films long that has as much artistic integrity as the eight Harry Potter movies, and that's what makes the Harry Potter films so special.

I confess. I read the book about a dozen times in the past few years. It's not like I don't do anything else, but I do. In a year, I probably get through about 25-30 books. So reading HP and the DH was just something I was enjoying. There are clues in various places in the books, and you just have to marvel at how Jo Rowling tied up all the ends so nicely in the last one.The one thing, though, that I felt was off in 7 was how she portrayed Hagrid. In a few cases, it seemed like she was treating him like a buffoon, but that's a personal opinion, not something that critically could be considered wrong with the book.But the last book kept elements close together. It brought in all the old characters, added a few new ones, but basically held together things with bonds of steel. The relationships were both old and new, with a true feeling of family and friendships. And we all celebrated the good times in the book and lamented the bad times.So when Mad-Eye Moody gets killed so early in the book, a feeling of loss goes with him. When Fleur is so happy to be marrying Bill, we're all happy for them both. When we see Kreacher turn from a foul house-elf to a fine house-servant, we're happy for him. When Tonks tells us she is pregnant, we celebrate! But almost none of that is in the movie. We know instinctively that those things happened in the book, but if you haven't read them, you're going to go WTF? an awful lot.Mad-Eye is killed in the chase, but there isn't a toast to this memory. When Fleur is so intense about the wedding, we see no real emotion, but for one brief moment. When the trio leaves Kreacher for their exploits at the ministry, we have no idea how much he has changed. And when Tonks and Lupin go off, there is nothing to suggest the very sad and aching love they have for each other, and about Remus's hesitation about his upcoming fatherhood.There is no investment in these characters in the film. It's like "strip the souls from everyone but Ron, Harry and Hermione, make the others more melodramatic with no attachment to the real story, and voilà! you have Deathly Hallows Part One." I confess: I don't like David Yates' direction. There has been something off about it since OOTP, though I might be one of the few who think that. I think his often amateurish direction is quite obvious in this film. The film is often like a roller coaster, with giddy high points, either in the action or the tone, but there are also many very low points, and there is nothing in the middle. We don't LEARN anything from the characters--we follow them on their journey, yes, but we have to inject too much of the overall plot from the book to see what has been left out, and what is still present. There are times when a collage filming of the many places the trio (and in the middle, the duo) went could get that section speeded up without weighing it down (a friend with me found the middle WAY too slow), and at times, a more polished director could have found ways to make the scenes pack a lot more information into them. It certainly didn't look like the kids weren't eating a whole lot, or how much Hermione actually fit into her small pocketbook. The scene that could have managed that would have been the scene in the book where Hermione packs the full sized painting of Sirius Black's relative, Phinea Black, former headmaster of Hogwarts, into her bag. But it was not to be.I think if there had been a consistent tone during the film, it would have helped bring a more cohesive tone to the film, interlocking all the elements into one. But there wasn't that kind of a feeling in it, and I am disappointed that it didn't happen.I might be one of the very few fans who feels the film wasn't a very good one. Yes, it's only half of a whole, and the second half might be a totally different one, emotionally, and dramatically. But I just need to say to fans, go with the warning that there are a lot of faults with this installment, and accept it just as a nice visual film, with very, very little to do with the entire HP legacy. It probably won't help, and you will be filling in the blanks from the books, but it's certainly better than nothing.

As Harry and Ron and Hermoine and everyone else has grown up, so have the audiences with the Potter franchise. So it should make some sense that by the time the seventh book has come around that it's coming down to the wire: the big showdown between Harry and the Man-We-Don't-Speak- His-Name, oh, whatever, Voldemort. It's usually that the mid-point movie (i.e. Empire Strikes Back) is the darkest one, but there was a quasi-dark ending to Half-Blood Prince, so it makes more sense that the filmmakers take Rowling's Deathly Hallows and turn it into what it should be: a ripping good apocalypse yarn.I kid a little, but it is a movie with a lot of black contours and desolation, as the trio might be walking through the British version of The Road minus some of the gray-scale photography. That, and the main 'plot' being that Harry has to find the horcruxes, which are items that could be used by Voldemort for very evil purposes. But then the next problem comes as how to destroy them? It's this section of the film, after a very entertaining section where the three go in disguise as full-grown-ups (a funny and intense scene in the Ministry of Magic), that it gets into a rhythm that is not what one would expect in a big- budget holiday blockbuster. A lot of it is sitting around contemplating, waiting, trying to figure things out, and if the audience gets impatient it's not due to the filmmaker's making it bungled but because the characters are having trouble figuring it out too, and we feel for them. Talking with my wife about the books in relation to the movies, I'm told that book seven is meant to be a character piece for a large part of it when they're in the woods (indeed it's something like a hundred pages of these woods scenes with the three, or sometimes two, of them frustrated in figuring out the symbols and suspense of running from the gestapo- like figures of the Dark Lord). But is Rowling as good at characters as she is at clever plots and intricate details of magic? Yes and no. Yes in that she makes good characters that we want to be around (for the most part, sometimes Ron gets on ones nerves), and no in that they are at best two dimensional figures, even with Harry, and there's only so much character to explore. But there are instances where one can excuse the tedium of some of these woods scenes. A moment where Harry and Hermoine have a levity pause and dance to music could be seen as extraneousness, but when it has the music of Nick Cave signing sad blues, why carp?David Yates' direction has found after a few of these movies- Order of the Phoenix still the best of his efforts but not far ahead of this one- and he has a classical style as far as big-budget high-action-adventure movies go in Hollywood. He can let an actor's rhythm speak for itself, and he has a really wonderful scene for a whole mess of top-tier British talent (i.e. Ralph Fiennes, Alan Rickman, Helena Bonham Carter et all) in the opening scene at Voldermort's castle. When it's exciting such as a fast-paced chase in the sky, it's exciting, and when it needs to slow down there's still attention to be paid to what's going down. Only a few points that a non-book reader such as myself such as a wedding scene for a minor character from movies past and a few points of reference for a couple of items or characters get lost on me.This is the kind of production that has great attributes and only a couple of damning liabilities, though the former outweighs the latter. There's a sequence where the story of the Deathly Hallows- how the three men who made deals with death for items and things- is told with a unique animation style that has silhouettes and figures that look like a Tim Burton special. It's one of the most breathtaking passages in any Potter movie, sophisticated to the point of impressing any serious fan of fable-storytelling. But the downsides... well, again, some of the pacing in those woods scenes are less than great. But more than that is a kind of curious aspect to the climax, which without spoiling much involves a character who we've only seen in one other Potter movie (I leave this non-spoiler for those who haven't read the books - those that do know what I mean already), and it's a tragic fate for the character. It's a fine moment of drama, but it lacks the punch that was likely there in the book as it's a character who is barely in the film itself and will need some memory-digging for the character's significance before.But as far as movies where artistic integrity takes place over dumb-loud action and is able to weave visual fx with the practical side of sets and costumes and things with the CGI is very commendable. It's no wonder that Guillermo del-Toro came close to directing this movie, as it appeals to a sensibility that reads the fantastical and supernatural as part of the world, even if one can't see it quite at first. Oh, and the other downside I almost neglected... it's the first part of a two-part finale. It's like getting a half slice of a BIG epic movie, so it's still big, but half-big. But as far as half-slice epics go, it's one of the best in the franchise.

It should be wise for people to at least watch the first six films in order before watching this one, if they haven't read the books already.With this film, we are slowly but surely bidding farewell to one of cinema's most successful and imaginative franchises. The franchise, like Harry Potter himself, has grown and matured as the years (and films) progress. Part I of the "Deathly Hallows" is ultimately a strong build- up to what will be a triumphant, bittersweet finale for everybody.I won't waste time trying to talk about the performances, because they are all great and powerful in their own way. Never mind that many of the cast members are very talented veteran British actors (try getting John Hurt, Alan Rickman, Ralph Fiennes, Brendan Gleeson, David Thewlis, Michael Gambon, Helena Bonham Carter, Imelda Staunton, Jason Isaacs and Bill Nighy in the same film again) - the three young actors who we have come to love and care for following the first film a decade ago, basically carry the franchise on their shoulders, and this film is no exception. Radcliffe looks handsome, Grint looks gruff, and Watson looks gorgeous. They've grown into fine young people.Screenwriter Steve Kloves doesn't forget to add the mood and gloom to the story as it slowly unfolds, but then again he adds some light humor to the film when it needs it. Bonus points for making this not only a visual spectacle, but also a character-driven ensemble; there's some complex characterization here. Also there's some action which aren't seen on screen, but mentioned by the characters. It's OK, because it's necessary for the brisk pacing, and it's not really that important anyways. Besides, the human mind can imagine these images far more powerfully.There are many themes in this film. Sacrifice, determination, (obviously) friendship, and above all - acceptance. As the films progressed the films started to gain an increasingly dark momentum - signaling that all hope may be lost. But in the end, will good triumph over evil? Like the film, real life isn't so sure. Also, the fact that the actors and crew are moving on after a decade of making these films - it's also another way of acceptance - the films have ended, they're moving on for the better of their lives/careers. It's real life, and I wish all these promising young actors brilliant lives and careers ahead of them."Hallows: Part I" is many parts thrilling, as there are quite a number of intense action sequences. Many of them, of course, are done with well-rendered visual effects, and in this one they just blend in at a natural level without being too jarring. However, the action sequences are perfectly blended in with the gripping, dramatic moments. They don't feel heavy handed and it's beautiful to look at. The animated sequence about the origins of the Deathly Hallows is an absolute masterclass and jaw-droppingly beautiful to both watch and listen. If separated by itself it can win an Oscar for best animated short. The crew also get their due here. David Yates has gotten a firm grip on the film's direction since directing the fifth and sixth films years ago. The cinematography is stunning and exquisite, and it gives off a certain moody hue to the film. The editing is also crisp, it's not choppy when it doesn't need to be. Alexandre Desplat's score really makes a difference, it literally puts you into the world with its beautiful, harmonious, and emotional tones.In short, I would have to say that this film is the best "Harry Potter: film yet in all honesty. I grew up with the series, and as per the actors, it will be an emotional goodbye. But rest assured, the finale will be grand.One more thing. This interpretation of the novel is the best one yet. The novel is done justice, something not seen since the first three films. It's something for both the fans and novel-readers alike, as there are some pieces only book readers can discover while watching the film. It's definitely a huge improvement over "Half-Blood Prince"'s adaptation, which for me is the worst Potter film.Harry Potter is a phenomenon. But, like all things, it most come to an end eventually. This is the beginning of the end, and I wouldn't have it any other way.Overall rating: 75/100P.S.:Eat your hearts out, Twi-hards.

Right from the very start, when the Warner Bros logo appears, this film feels different. The colours are gray and muted, the sound is a low rumble and even the famous theme from John Williams seems to have given way to a much darker drone. It doesn't even feel like a Harry Potter movie anymore. It makes the first Chris Columbus movies feel like they are from a whole different universe. And this feeling stayed with me right until the end For the last few instalments of the series (possibly from number 3 onwards) we've been hearing a lot of "this one is darker" type of lines being bantered about, whether from the critics, the fans or even the film-makers themselves. But it's never been more true than in this final chapter.And yet, this is not just a darker and scarier film, it is also a much more mature one too. It's as if the film-makers have grown together with their viewers (who are now 10 years older than they were when the first movie got released) A few years ago, when we first heard about the fact that the seventh and final book was going to be divided into two films, we all cynically thought straight away: "They really want to squeeze every single penny out of this last one, those greedy people". And I am sure that must have been one of the reasons, however director David Yates has been able to take advantage of this extra time to give the story a certain amount of depth, sophistication and gravitas that was missing from all the previous instalments.The pace is a lot slower, for a start. Of course, you get some cracking action scenes too (a particular good one through the Dartfor Tunnel), some great visuals, whether just the perfect vistas and landscapes, the inventive special effects (the scene, in the trailer too, where there are about 8 different Potters, is all done in one perfect 360 degree shot) and there's even a beautiful short animation sequence (where "The Tale of the Three Brothers", is shown as a shadow-play and that by itself should almost be nominated for an Oscar for BEST animated short), but the real core of the movie this time are actually the 3 main characters. Their dialogue scenes take centre stage and are played in the most realistic possible way, with long silences, pauses and meaningful looks.Even the music is a lot more subtle and understated, aside from being of course a lot darker. There's a particular chase scene in a forest towards the second half of the movie, where unexpectedly, they decided not to play any music at all, just letting the sound effects play through: that is very very unusual for a blockbuster of this calibre.The film bravely takes a lot of risks, on one hand, by veering away from what kids are probably expecting, but at the same time it'll give fans a real treat (and it might even change the minds of some of those Harry Potter haters)! It is a film about emotions, about characters, about friendship first and foremost and it all happens to take place in a magical world. It's what every single avid Harry Potter reader has been waiting for years.In a way, the mood of the film is much closer to the Lord of the Rings trilogy, not just in the muted colours of the landscape, or in the grittier looks of the characters (even Harry Potter looks dirtier this time and has even got a bit of a beard!), but in the way it's paced and constructed.It's essentially a road movie (it's also the first film to be Hogward-free. We only get one quick glimpse of the train going to the school, but that's about it). There are much fewer laughs throughout and most of them come from Ron (Rupert Grint), but somehow when they do come, they seem to work a lot better than they ever did. Maybe because the whole film is so tense that you are just craving for a moment to relax let the tension fade. And this is by no means a criticism, in fact, quite the opposite.By all means, this isn't a masterpiece. For all the tension, the great atmosphere and all the brave intentions, there are some slightly clunky moments here and there too. For example the scene where Ron comes back and rejoins the group, feels a bit "out of the blue" and could have been handled in a better way. Also some of the dialogue doesn't quite ring true and too many characters come in and out like bell-boys in a hotel. But it's interesting to notice how most of the stuff that doesn't quite work in the film, has actually been lifted straight from the books. I think once again the film exposes the weaknesses of the book (which c'mon let's face it, however gripping, it wasn't really a great piece of writing. I loved it, in fact I loved the whole series, but I recognise its limits).It's good to see them trying something different. It's good to see them slowing down a bit and taking good care of their characters. It's good to see them trying to be more mature and stir away from cheesy clichés. I can see why this is JK Rowling's favourite movie.I was happy with it too but then again, I love Harry Potter, so I am probably biased.Summer 2011 cannot be here soon enough. And after that? Oh dear, I am already so sad that it's all going to be over See the full review here http://wp.me/p19wJ2-3v

In my mind, the Deathly Hallows Part 1 captured the feeling of exactly what the Harry Potter movies should have been all along: gritty, emotional, and cinematic. I haven't been a huge fan of any of the HP movies to date, but I was pleased with the Deathly Hallows because it took a big step up in maturity from the "children's fantasy" genre and focused on themes very central to the seventh book: hopelessness and desperation. After the death of Hogwarts headmaster Albus Dumbledore, the magical world falls into disarray as Voldemort gains power over the Ministry of Magic and hunts tirelessly after his mortal enemy and our continuing protagonist, Harry Potter. While keeping a low cover, Harry, Ron, and Hermoine decide to track down and destroy Voldemort's soul contained in hidden "horcruxes" but have difficulties deciding what to do and where to start.The Deathly Hallows very successfully portrays the despair-filled journey of the wizarding trio. With dark undertones running through the cinematography, Part 1 of the Harry Potter finale is the film that deals more with the emotional stagnation of the characters and spends less time with action scenes and major plot points. Since Rowling's seventh book is separated into two movies, Part 1 boasts a much slower pace than earlier HP films and is not so focused on cramming as many subplots and side-stories from the book as possible into the movie's runtime, which tends to clutter up the storyline and make the whole thing feel rushed. But where the slow pacing makes this film stand out in the series, it also may be its downfall. The Deathly Hallows continually feeds us a feeling of desolation as Harry, Ron and Hermoine fail to discover a way to destroy the horcruxes; they seem to be making no progress towards defeating the Dark Lord, but as an effect the movie seems to be making no progress towards an ending. Storyline lags intensely towards the middle of the film and is dragged out until the conclusion (which ends abruptly). You'll be left in your seats feeling like this is going nowhere- but that's the point: Harry, Ron, and Hermoine are getting nowhere. So I liked this movie because the pace was slow, but I also didn't like this movie because the pace was slow. See what I'm getting at? Aside from that, I can't complain much. Performances were fine, effects were impressive, and best of all, nothing dastardly was done to J.K. Rowling's story.The Deathly Hallows: Part 1 is a nice improvement and a fine addition to the Harry Potter series and should serve as a solid emotional base for Part 2 to take off with next year. If you've enjoyed the HP movies so far, this should be a satisfying experience at least. If not, let the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 redeem your faith in the series. 7/10P.S. Keep on the lookout for the scene about the deathly hallows story. It has some of the most beautiful and artistic animation I have ever seen in a movie.

Ever since the release of the first Harry Potter movie in 2001, I've wondered how a TV miniseries of the books would have fared. The movies so far have had difficulties showing enough of the books' events within a reasonable time slot to keep the story flowing. They've all had to omit significant plot points, which has not only disappointed the more literal-minded fans but risked the integrity of the story. This was most painfully evident in the fifth movie, "Order of the Phoenix," which awkwardly attempted to fit the longest Potter book into just 2 hours and 15 minutes of film. The result was a movie that felt choppy and barely coherent, almost dreamlike. The two best films up to now--the third and the sixth--worked in part because they took the most risks, often departing substantially from the narrative of the books, to the consternation of many fans. I was not one of the fans complaining, because I figured that as long as it wasn't a miniseries, the best approach was to interpret the story rather than present the events exactly as they appeared in the books.Dividing the seventh book into two movies has given a taste of what a miniseries might have been like. "Deathly Hallows: Part 1" is a more faithful adaptation than any of the previous films. This surprised me a little, because the portion of Book Seven it covers is actually longer than the entirety of some of the earlier books. (As I was rereading it a few months ago, I correctly guessed where they'd end Part 1--it's at an important turning point in the story that occurs close to the two-thirds mark.) Most of the film's sequences are exactly as I had envisioned them, and sometimes better than I had envisioned them. I especially liked its approach to the Riddle-Hermione scene, to the matter of protective enchantments around their camp (which is handled with a nice dose of spookiness), and to a spell that distorts a character's face. Apart from the oversimplification of a few plot details here and there, any flaws in the story come straight from the book. The two-and-half-hour movie drags at some points, but then so did the book, particularly in the forest scenes. The plot concerns Voldemort's takeover of the wizarding world and pursuit of Harry, who goes into hiding with Ron and Hermione but repeatedly endangers them and himself in his daunting efforts to find and destroy a set of objects that keep Voldemort immortal, aided only by a few enigmatic clues Dumbledore has left him.It is not a very accessible film for non-fans. People who haven't read or seen any of the previous installments will probably be lost. It never once pauses to explain the Harry Potter universe or anything about the background to these tumultuous events, not even a prologue like the one that began the third of Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" films. The good news is that it doesn't condescend to the audience. The bad news is that if you don't know or can't remember things like what a horcrux is or what happens when you point a wand at someone and say "Obliviate," you might have trouble following the story.As a fan, however, I loved it. It's just well-filmed, and I had notably fewer complaints about acting and special effects than I had for the previous movies. The CGI is relatively unobtrusive, and there aren't too many fake-looking moments. (The house-elves look especially good this time.) Ralph Fiennes finally appears to have settled into the role of Voldemort, after having delivered somewhat phoned-in performances previously. The kids, who get to dominate more scenes than in any of the other films, when their presence was counterbalanced by a plethora of seasoned British performers who are mostly absent here, have really grown into their roles. They were well-cast from the start and always had a certain raw talent, but early in the series they possessed some of the amateur qualities common to young actors. They have become increasingly proficient as the series has progressed (which I suspect was what the studio intended when it eschewed the tradition of casting older actors in child roles). Here they display the kind of camaraderie that can only be developed gradually, after having acted together in several films, and it makes the scenes that deal with their relationship feel natural and unforced.I actually look forward to seeing the movie again at some point, just so I can sit back and take in more of the details. I think I didn't appreciate it enough the first time, distracted as I was by my knowledge of what happens in the book and the lack of any significant divergence in the film's depiction. There is not a lot in this film that will surprise fans; the enjoyment comes from seeing how vividly it is all brought to life.

As far as cinematic performance goes it wasn't so bad, however i can't say too much about it because i feel the bias of me being such a huge fan of the book might influence my review. However this review is meant for those hardcore harry potter fans. I was very disappointed throughout the whole movie, not that the movie was poorly done or anything, but the one thing i felt was the biggest flaw in the movie was they kind of rushed everything and they kind of left some important parts to the movie, not just in terms of story line but emotional depth that you feel when you read the book but of course this could be my bias talking. I have heard some people who haven't read the book say this movie was fantastic so i would say that the movie does somewhat compensate for the rushed story line with a fantastic movie yet i was still not completely satisfied. I understand the previous movies were made before the 7th book was even published so its difficult for the writers and producers to get in the mind of J.K rowling and put in every detail that will be important later yet i felt that those details that got left out and that were squeezed into the 7th movie kind of made it seem like in order for it to be included they had to take out some stuff. For instance they barely introduced Bill, which should have been done in the 4th movie, and they barely introduce mundungus which should have been done during the 5th movie, so we kind of lose essence what kind of character bill and mundungus are, and i feel this detail is what made the wedding in the movie seem so unimportant which was actually an important detail in the book because the wedding did a lot of stuff for the story, by having krum it introduces Ron's jealousy in the story, and also provides detail about gregorovitch the wandmaker, and shows the controversy of the mark on luna's dad's necklace and also contributes to harry's curiosity to dumbledore's life. also in the beginning scene when they're transporting harry they made hedwig dying as a giveaway to the real harry instead of the explleriamus charm in the book which is more symbolic. anyways thats just some of the things that i felt shouldn't have been changed, there are a lot more. So my advice is if you read the book don't expect this movie to match your expectations because its understandable that they have to consider the audience that doesn't read the book, but overall i guess this movie was pretty good.

I guess I expected a lot more from this film - it's long and drug out way to long on unnecessary scenes like the wedding for example. I realize this is a two part film but to drag out the first film with a bunch of filler scenes really bored me.I never thought I would dislike a Harry Potter film - but this one does not interest me. The first films were fun - this one is simply boring to me.5/10.

Just for the record, I love the books(for a while Philosopher's Stone was a huge favourite of mine) and I personally like the films. None of them are masterpieces, but they are likable, entertaining and I think well made too. I saw Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 1 with high expectations, there were many friends of mine who said it was brilliant and the best yet. After seeing it with my family last night I have to say Amen! This was a wonderful film in my opinion, and it does a very good job sticking to a mammoth story. I also think they made the right decision splitting it into two parts, if they hadn't the result I think would have been too rushed.If I do have a criticism here, I do agree that the pacing is rather slow. I think it started and ended brilliantly, it was the middle where it dragged with a lot of admiring the scenery. As beautiful as it was, it didn't admit much to the story.Criticism aside, I adored the production values. The darker scenes were indeed dark and somewhat bleak, especially the beginning at Malfoy Manor where it looked like a film noir, while the scenery in the middle of the film was gorgeous. The music was another delight, it was sweeping, grandiose, majestic, for me the most complex and most atmospheric of all the Harry Potter movie scores. The script is an improvement too, not that it was terrible in the other movies, but especially I thought the humour was better judged(ie. Moody's comment about the polyjuice potion), while the story despite the slow pacing was never less than engrossing.There are a few scenes too that I especially liked. One was Dobby's death, I thought it was heart-rending. Dobby was so lovable and funny, and in this instalment cute too I think(loved the trainers), although I knew it was going to happen I couldn't help shedding tears. I think what got me were his last words, they were so poetic and touching. Another was Godric's Hollow, like the former I knew it was coming but it was done in an atmospheric and unnerving way I couldn't help jump. I was also taken with the first "obliviate" scene, the regret in Hermione's face and voice made it incredibly poignant, while the 7 Potters chase was both funny and thrilling. My favourite though was the Three Brothers animated sequence. I was wondering how they were going to do that, and after seeing that scene I have to applaud the writers. It was a clever and beautifully done sequence, with some haunting images especially with death. Harry and Hermione's dance got mixed reactions in the cinema, some thought it was awkward and others like me liked it, at that one I thought they were going to kiss which I don't think would have gone down well.Yates's direction is also much better than it has been. It wasn't bad in the other two films, but here it looked as though he took real charge, and all the pivotal scenes here were in general wonderfully handled. The acting is mostly very good. Daniel Radcliffe is likable enough, and Rupert Grint has great comic timing. Emma Watson I think gives her best performance of the series so far and she steals every scene she's in, while Alan Rickman while not in much is deliciously suave and dour. The two standouts for me were Helena Bonham Carter, whose Bellatrix was powerful and sometimes even scary and Ralph Fiennes who was really quite creepy sometimes without saying much at all. Bill Nighy's Scrimgeour is good but not as memorable, while I do think they wasted the Dursleys.Overall, a rock solid film that ended in a perfect place and my personal favourite of the series so far. In fact, it makes me all the more excited for the next. 9/10 Bethany Cox.

If you've read all the Harry Potter books, then you should know that, as the series went on, they essentially became an allegory for totalitarianism. Certainly one can see that in "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1". Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, and Emma Watson reprise their roles as Harry, Ron, and Hermione, respectively. The three are now having to live almost in secret due to the almost fascistic takeover of the wizarding world by Lord Voldemort's (Ralph Fiennes) minions. In fact, while the three are undercover in the office building, the factory looks like something out of Nazi Germany or Stalin's USSR: the employees robotically help to publish material which pushes a fear of the "other" (in this case Muggles, or non-wizards). Harry, Ron and Hermione are like the French Resistance, one might say.Anyway, it's a good thing that they broke the final book into two movies. So far, they're doing a really good job not only bringing the magic to the screen, but also warning of the dangers that totalitarian entities - represented here by the Death Eaters - pose. I recommend it.Tom Felton, Jason Isaacs, Helena Bonham Carter, Alan Rickman, Robbie Coltrane, Warwick Davis, Brendan Gleeson, John Hurt, David Thewlis, Timothy Spall, Imelda Staunton, and Julie Walters reprise their roles from the previous movies, with new additions Bill Nighy and Rhys Ifans.

I really wasn't sure what to feel watching this movie. Having read the book, I knew the story, who the characters where, and what was going to happen. But it was still emotionally confusing. There isn't really a moment in this movie where you're allowed to fully feel the moment of what is happening. For every moment that should be happy or triumphant, such as Ron breaking the horcrux, you immediately have a scene reminding the characters of the sobering reality of their situation. The story piles on hardship after hardship. The action move very fast, with some of the sequences I enjoyed in the book going by so quick I didn't feel like I had the chance to savor them and look for all the details I had waited for (the first chase when Harry leaves home, for example). And that's pretty much how it continued. And actually that's basically how the book went. So you can say that this movie was extremely faithful to the source material, probably as much as any film adaption ever has been. I think I was maybe looking for the movie to provide something that the book didn't--maybe to help me realize how I felt about this story which just seemed to happen, without allowing me to feel a proper release after all the buildup. I am excited for part 2, even knowing how everything will turn out, but this time I won't expect the film to solve any of my issues for me.

This is not a run of the mill series, but something which has been intricately planned for from almost the very beginning. With the last few films crafting the level of suspense into a crescendo, where each film augments the impending doom and gloom culminating in the finale seen in The Half Blood Prince, things get a lot worst here from the start, where The Deathly Hallows begins with a grim reminder from the Minister of Magic, before we see Voldemort (Ralph Fiennes) and his ghastly lieutenants plot to take over both realms Muggle or not in quite Fascist terms.Yes you read that right, and what I thought was quite the brilliant stroke of genius to transmit that level of fear and dread into the Potter world through something quite familiar in our world, where there's a takeover of ministries and the installation of past villains who are puppets of the regime, the continued discrimination and probable extermination of the ordinary, non magical Muggles and even the half-breeds against those who are of pure magical blood, and a curious scene where a disguised Potter head inside the undergrounds of the Ministry only to see propaganda being created by the masses in creepy, clockwork like fashion.Everything is doom and gloom with copious amounts of shades, shadows, black and grey (save for Hermione's red dress in one scene), where our heroic trio are quite clueless without their guardian headmaster Dumbledore (Michael Gambon) always ready to pull some strings from behind the scenes. His absence is largely felt, and they are left mostly to their own devices and smarts to try and figure out a way to get to the remaining Horcruxes and to destroy them. They become the hunted with little allies to rely on, where betrayal seem the norm, almost from within their own circle of trust as well where a major subplot continues to dwell on the suggested romantic/platonic dynamics between Hermione with Harry and Ron, the former sharing a curious dance sequence while on the run, and the latter, well having his worst fear confront his lack of courage to tell Hermione just how he feels for her, well, from how many films ago.So the verdict is whether The Deathly Hallows warranted two films. My answer is a resounding, definite yes, because there's so much going on in the story, of the relationships and friendships forged over the years, of the closure both good and bad that has to come to the myriad of characters introduced (J.K. Rowling doesn't show a lot of mercy by the way), and not to mention the inherent quest that Harry, Ron and Hermione chose to embark on that has gone beyond just the survival of Harry Potter, and what's more, introduces to us what those Deathly Hallows actually are, which goes just beyond the destruction of the Horcuxes. Danger lurks at every corner and the narrative spins at breakneck speed, harrowing most times with the frequent close shaves the rookies encounter against their enemies who are growing more powerful by the minute.While the previous films have boasted special effects extravaganzas be it little things to pepper the scene or large battles between wizards and witches, this is kept surprisingly muted in the film since it's swaying on one end of the spectrum with Evil gaining an upper hand, and most of the effects not already something seen before in the earlier Potter films. But what ultimately leads this film into being the more powerful one, is the strength of the story and how it leads you along the way, building anticipation as we root for positive outcomes as much as possible, with slight comedy punctuating appropriate moments to lift the spirits.Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson all share that perfect camaraderie that's been built over the years, it's no wonder that they add that convincing depth and natural realism to their friendship, with an audience that has largely grew up with them as well. There's no ensemble cast like the one assembled for the Potter franchise, though most of them - Ralph Fiennes, Alan Rickman, Helena Bonham Carter, Bill Nighy, Tom Felton and a long list more - come and go too frequent and too soon, but one hopes the evil Death Eaters do get their spotlight by the time the second installment rolls over.Chris Columbus may have begun the film franchise and made it a large welcome for the young (especially) and old to embrace J.K Rowling's magical world, but I am of the opinion that David Yates inherited the franchise at the right point from The Order of the Phoenix where things required a consistent hand rather than a rotating director's chair, and developed the franchise into what it is today in quite unassuming terms. Credit also has to go to Steve Kloves who has adapted from Rowling's books (save for the point where Yates came onboard), knowing what best to adapt into the film, and what to leave behind, steering clear of the more cutesy tales and plunging us headlong into Voldemort's return and ascension to power.You know that this will end in a cliffhanger, and what a cliffhanger it is, whetting your appetite to devour Part 2 as soon as it's released, just so to witness how the film franchise of our generation will fittingly conclude. I can't wait, and I'm sure the hundreds of thousands of fans around the world cannot wait for the next too.

First of all, I'm a person who has read the HP series several times over so I do know what I'm talking about. Good: This is by far one of the best " stuck to the book & plot " harry potter movies.The scenery and views are beautifully stunning most of the time ( Norwegian valleys and lakes ) but sometimes its a bit Tesco value really ( yeah i mean the bit when they're running away from the snatchers who happen to be chasing them in Bracknell, Berkshire just behind the lookout adventure park ) By far the darkest potter movie so far.The film is more grown up, responsibility and love of family are at heart of this film especially during turmoil in relationships. This is where the good stuff ends ( yeah really not much is there )Bad:This movie is over 2 and a half hours long. Thats over 150 minutes ! its not good enough to have a 5minute action scene with a bit of spell bashing and exploding dishes and furniture and then have 30 minutes of book reading or guarding a tent. Honestly at some points my eyes where wondering to corners of the screen where I was hoping i would find something more interesting. It was very dull for a lot of the time, how can they have got it so wrong??!! A dull harry potter movie? You need some skill to achieve that, heres why..I felt COMPLETELY and utterly unconnected to the actors. There was no connection or chemistry between the actors and the audience, I was left completely cold. Now I know for a fact from the earlier movies that these actors CAN have a definite relationship between the audience and yet there was none, not a single scene left me emotionally connected.This applies to people who haven't read the book, what was Yates thinking ?!? how creative is it to have a fight scene, then the 3 disappear to another place, wait around 30 minutes, another fight or chase then they disappear to a different location. ON 3 DIFFERENT OCCASIONS??!! what message does that send to the audience ? Yeh we've wrapped up 5 films nicely, now lets just milk the audience from their cash. Because that is exactly where this is heading, 6 was atrociously bad but at least it had some humour. This barely has that, apart from Dobby clinging onto Mungundus and a few awkwardly funny moments with Ron and Hermione the amount of humour was next to none. Yes its a much darker and more scarier ( supposedly ) than the others, but there was no tension or excitement. The build up times where almost ridiculous and when you got the peak of the tension there wasn't anything to get your heart racing, or anything you wouldn't expect. 'YAWN' a snake jumps from a whole and tries to eat harry after 10 minutes of him and Hermione creeping around in a dark house full of flies and blood 'YAWN'I'm so disappointed, all the hype, all the production time and its barely better than number 6. And that is really poor because 6 was a disgrace if I'm honest. The best book was made to appeal to 14 year old girls who'd giggle at the love & relationships throughout the movie. Really if they want to step it up they have to make a 15 and actually make it gruesome and scary at times when it needs to be ! Not to have a 10 minute lead up to a snake attacking harry and biting a chair leg !!( pathetic ) Finally, I cant believe at the amount of good press and reviews this has, are you all out of your mind ?! I tried to look at this in every possible way, HP fan, non HP fan, book fan, non book fan. FROM EVERY ANGLE this movie was long winded, dull, acted without enough feel & passion and poorly directed. And yes I have taken into consideration the fact this is part 1 of the book, and part 2 will definitely be more exciting, but it really seems as if they looked at the feedback from HP 6 and went ' yep the audience didn't like it when we made up stuff, lets stick to the book ' so they stuck the book in the most uncreative, utterly boring story telling fashion. There was no sparkle or anything special setting this apart from the other movies. Think about it, HP1: introduction to the world of magic, everything is new, epic set of tasks which young harry, Ron and Hermione conquered. HP 2 : Epic Quiddich and fight with the Basilisk, HP3: Epic death eater scene and true identity of Sirius. black HP4: Epic maze and Voldemorts ' reincarnation ' HP5: Epic battle, emotional death of Sirius & Dumbledores EPIC fight with Voldemort. HP6: Ehhh, epic flop ? HP7 P1: Epic directing & acting fail ?MASSIVE disappointment for someone who paid in excess of £15 to watch this and has eagerly waited for months.5/10 is extremely generous and only awarded because I've always been a HP fan and I love the books and previous movies especially 4&5 which were fantastic. To be fair 50% doesn't even reflect the amount of money I'd pay to watch this, because If i'd known, 5 quid would've been absolute limit.This is not a bash but really a set of details in what went wrong in the movie, I'm not saying I'm an expert of any sort, but really they should and they CAN do better, we have proof of that earlier on in the series. There were positives, but for a film of this magnitude, this expensive and this famous, it ought to be MUCH better.

I just got home from watching Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. I will try not to give any spoilers, but I thought it was one of the best movies yet. I thought moreover that it was fairly loyal to the book for once, as far as it was possible. I thought the tension build up was very good throughout the movie, I liked seeing the characters being slightly more matured. There are some new kind of 'special effects' in the movie, which was kind of weird to me at first, but I guess it fitted the story. I can't wait to see part two , even though I know what will happen.I will not tell you anymore, but it is definitely worthy to see it in the cinema:)

"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 1" is the seventh out of eight Harry Potter films. It is the year 2009 already and the kids have considerably grown up, a lot has happened already and Potter and the gang get ready for their final battle with Voldemort. We have more evil characters than ever. Lestrange, Umbridge, Snape, Draco, Wormtail etc. (seem to) have joined the Dark Lord. The film is directed once again by David Yates, just like films 5, 6 and 8. It is written again by Steve Kloves who wrote all the Potter films based on Rowling's books except one. The film scored Academy Award nominations for its visual effects and art direction, but came short as always. Just no luck with the Academy for Potter.Fans of the franchise will be shocked by the deaths of many (dear) characters such as Mad-Eye, Gobby or Hedwig here. As if it wasn't already enough that they had to deal with Dumbledore's demise. One of my personal highlights is the story of the three brothers in this movie. Apart from that I really liked Luna Lovegood who stole every scene she was in. Great actress Evanna Lynch and I really want to see more from her in the future. Her character of course isn't going to be Potter's girlfriend (that would be Ginny), but she's too cool for him anyway. Also her dad plays a big role this time. One of my favorite quotes from her is when she says that Potter does not want to talk to them right now, but is simply too polite to say. As mysterious as Draco's role is, the same goes for Snape. Or maybe not, as he is downright evil in this film and we won't find out the truth until the final chapter.Another highlight would be when Ron, Harry and Hermione were in Britain's wilderness on their own. The central characters' tension, conflicts, but also the bonding are the biggest strength of this film and the harmonic dance sequence with Harry and Hermione is truly a thing of beauty with all the horrible messages pouring in through the radio. The maybe toughest scene to watch was Bellatrix torturing Hermione, also a contender for the whole franchise. It's kinda pointless to recommend or not recommend this film as, if you consider watching this, you have liked the earlier films anyway. I personally believe it is a pretty good film and builds up nicely to the 8th and last chapter of the hyper-successful Harry Potter franchise. Of course, it was also once again among the most commercially successful films of the year, but that's a given.

Growing up with a series, especially a fantasy can be quite an intimate experience. Gratifying because of the spectacular adventures it unfolds, changing its course through the years, as well as heartbreaking for it's not permanent. After all, what can be more emotional than seeing the improbable turn true even if it's just a timeless tale of good vs evil told with a bright new perspective in a fictional universe around ingenious characters and creatures.. What's great about this film is that we feel the emotions the characters go through, probably because this movie follows the book very closely. The actors have all grown up and have given memorable performances and i have to add Emma Watson looks truly ravishing.Now Some of the coolest sequences involve a jaw-dropping chase between the death eaters and multiple Harry Potters, the troika's disguised entry and escape from the Ministry of Magic in a bid to steal Salazar Slytherin's locket ,a brilliantly animated interlude narrating 'The Tale of the Three Brothers' and Nagini's petrifying assault on a shell-shocked Harry. Thankfully, all this, especially the last mentioned bit, does not occur in 3D as previously planned. Be warned, not everyone has the stomach to endure the furious thrills that follow every time Voldemort's enormous snake makes an appearance.And while Voldemort himself only shows up during the first and final scene, his towering baritone and intimidating personality more than make up for the break. Fiennes conducts the foul-faced antagonist with such exquisite terror and theatrical charisma; he's assured to earn a seat in the realm of cinema's greatest villains. Now I eagerly await the last part of the series,I'm sure it'll be sad for millions of fans when they bid farewell to this epic and memorable series. Harry, Ron and Hermoine will be forever etched in our minds.

POSITIVES:1) The first six films could definitely be accused of being repetitive in their formula (start off outside Hogwarts, then spend the bulk of the film at Hogwarts, then leave Hogwarts again at the end). This film makes the brave and refreshing move of taking place entirely outside of Hogwarts, which I think was needed after six films
2) This film is certainly the darkest of the series, but I'd also say it's the most gritty. This is a key distinction, as it's not just the fact that it's dark, it's the fact that the use of magic is relatively sparing and the film actually feels mostly plausible, compared to the others which feature a lot more fantastical elements
3) Dobby's death was absolutely heartbreaking and makes me emotional every time I see it. This must've been my roughly fifth time seeing this, but I was still welling up
4) The story of the three brothers was visualised well. I think it's largely because so much of this film has a bleak grey colour palette, so the three brothers story feels like a welcome beacon of lightNEGATIVES:1) As the title of this review suggests, there's just so much of this film that feels like it's doing nothing to actually move the story forward, and is instead just filling time. It's the first time since the first couple of films where I've really felt bored for long periods of the film
2) Harry and Ron's teen angst was really annoying and turned me off from the film a lot
3) Mad-Eye dying off screen and barely getting a mention was very underwhelming
4) It felt quite lazy that a lot of the plot advancements in this film are made through high convenience. Harry gets multiple visions of Voldemort that help him figure out what to do. They figure out Umbridge has the locket solely because she happens to be on the front cover of a newspaper that's next to them at the time. They learn about the deathly hallows because they met someone who had a necklace with the symbol on earlier in the film.

*complete spoilers*The first scenes went something like this: Everyone drinks a nasty potion that makes them look like Harry and they get undressed on camera spouting anti-climatic, fast-paced jokes. Then in what *should* have been an exciting chase-scene, Hedwig plummets to her death. Harry is traumatized. Later he learns Mad-Eyes also died and, not giving him much thought, 'zips Ginny up' in and abrupt oh-so-passionate-scene with as much charisma and heart as a toaster.Harry then meets a witch who tells him bad things about Dumbledore which he instantly believes even though he's known her for all of, what, ten seconds, and Harry falls into a depression. Kinsgley warns the wedding party (oops, I forget to mention. Ron's brother Bill is getting married. y'know, Bill? That one Weasley child no one ever mentioned or casted? Him.) So, anyways, Voldemort took over the ministry (how exactly we'll never know) and is coming to kill everyone harry cares about (like Ginny. he does care about her y'know. they had their first love scene which lasted five seconds and was witness by George, who had a toothbrush in his ear.) So Harry, Hermione, and Ron run away because Hermione is a flipping genius who always saves their butts with advanced magic and bottomless purses.Okay. The action stops here.Now we are privileged to enjoy stunning landscapes and breathtaking landscapes of famous places all around the UK where the dynamic trio (make that duo: Ron leaves) set up camp. The audience is delighted to be separated from the rest of the plot and action-packed, intense moments happening in the outside world, and instead can focus their attention on the beauty of a certain tree that harry and Hermione are sitting under and discussing the evils of Dumbledore, the man who ruined everything.Hermione finds a doodle in a book and Harry and Hermione determine it MUST be a hint in a Blue's-Clues like moment of epiphany. Ignoring their new sense of purpose (besides finding lovely lakes to vacation by) Harry risks it all to return to Godric's Hollw and is there (unwittingly) attacked by a snake...lady...thing. They escape (Hermione, cough, cough) and return to their picturesque campsite.In the middle of the night Harry sees a patronus and, since of course NO ONE wants to kill him, deceive him, maul him, etc. He follows it like a complete nitwit. Luckily his hunch is correct and he arrives at a frozen lake, undresses, and takes a dip. A dark locket proceeds to choke him (why it couldn't choke him above-water, I haven't the faintest idea) but Harry is saved by Ron, who also manages to get his shirt off. With the sword of Godric, the two (still wet) decide to destroy the locket that so fiendishly attempted to strangle Harry (naughty object of darkness and evil).And then...Ron bears witness to a porn scene between Harry and Hermione who are inexplicably making out naked. (It is a very emotional scene.) Ron, fighting past the ridiculous apparition, smashes the locket to a million pieces and Harry and Ron return to Hermione and Ron spews some nonsense about a bubble of light in his heart.The three reunited, they reluctantly leave their gorgeous campgrounds to track down a madman in hopes of finding out the mysterious meaning of Dumbledore's Doodle. The madman is only too happy to oblige and tells them it is a very important symbol of a fairy tale, so now that they have this info their problems are over. Next the audience is treated to a Tim-Burton-like animated retelling of said fairy tale that TOTALLY goes with the movie (not). The madman then attempts to capture them but they escape (Hermione COUGH COUGH) but are captured by icky "men" who seem more interested in Hermione than in getting a reward for Harry Potter. The Icky "Men" take the trio to where Voldemort lives but Voldemort is away for the time being and will return momentarily, in the mean time won't you have a seat in this lovely damp prison cell while Bellatrix attempts to torture Hermione by biting her neck or whatever it is that she's doing?Voldemort doesn't show up (it's a *very* long holiday he's taking and he can't be disturbed) but Dobby does. Dobby's voice has undergone reverse-puberty, but that doesn't matter because Dobby has come to save Harry Potter because Dobby can materialize in and out of places, even the dark Lord's secret hideout.So Dobby rescues them (Luna and a Goblin in addition to the trio. Her dad was the madman I'm afraid. Yes, sad really how family units are organized.) Anyhow, Bellatrix stands there watching them escape and at the last moment throws a good-old-fashioned dagger into the air where they're disappearing and when they come out the other end Dobby says some lame last words in a girly voice and perishes, with Harry crying unconvincingly. Fade to black and Voldemort pops up (who's taken the failed capture of his worst enemy rather well, given the circumstances) and desecrates Dumbledore's tomb (and Dumbledore is amazingly fresh and un-decomposed) and takes Dumbledore's wand. He shoots a random red flare into the sky that serves no purpose whatsoever and the credits roll. Finally.Part 2. How exciting!

The last book in the Harry Potter saga has been split into two parts. At first, maybe people would think it is to squeeze some more financial mileage out of the series. On the other hand, having watched this installment, there is simply too much complex storytelling involved in this book to cram it into only one two and half hour movie.This Part 1 is already a very full two and half hours. The drama begins even before the opening credits roll. The special effects have reached a new high point with the trick of using polyjuice potion to create multiple Harry's. The frenetic escape of Harry in Hagrid's motor sidecar is an achievement in action editing. The trio's penetration of the Ministry of Magic to get the locket horcrux is very exciting and tension-filled.Momentum dips a bit in the midsection as our trio scour the English wilderness for a way to destroy the horcrux. This prolonged section, which some may find boring, dealt more with the personal relationships loyalty of the three friends as challenges are thrown their way. The segment is marked by the hard-to-watch bloodlust of Bellatrix Lestrange and the nobility of Dobby. Watch out too for a most unexpected dance scene which will surely make you smile, if not actually chuckle!In the third section, we learn what the "deathly hallows" are referred to in the title as our trio learns it from Xenophilius Lovegood. But the main highlight here is a most amazing animated short featurette called "The Tale of Three Brothers" as narrated by Hermione. This Part 1 ends very well with a sky-splitting final cliffhanger sequence.Its been repeatedly mentioned how the main actors Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint and Emma Watson have all grown up in front of our eyes as this movie series unfolded. Rupert and Emma are both taller than Daniel already! Acting-wise, everyone had likewise improved very much. They all even show some skin here. Yes, even Hermione! The support from the esteemed gallery of British actors and actresses serve the film very well indeed. We saw everyone from all the previous films it seems, except for Maggie Smith.The direction of David Yates is excellent as he did in the last two films. Yates and screenwriter Steve Kloves got just the proper mix of action, drama and humor needed to make the saga work on screen. This may just be a set-up installment, however, it stands very strong on its own merits. As the last scene faded to black, the audience will definitely develop the resolve to watch out for the concluding part to be released next summer, and witness the epic Battle of Hogwarts.

Almost a decade has passed since Harry first encountered Hogwarts. The long anticipated battle between Harry and Voldemort is drawing near. Hogwarts has become no more safe haven. The Ministry has set Harry as a fugitive. The beginning of the end has begun. First, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1" is the seventh film in the Harry Potter series based on the first half of the book. It is as usual dark in a David-Yates- Style. In its whole 146-minute run, "Deathly Hallows" follows Harry, Hermione and Ron who are on the run from the MInistry of Magic now controlled by the bald-looking, dangerous, evil Voldemort as well as trying to locate and destroy Voldemort's remaining Horcruxes as explained in "Half-Blood Prince". "Deathly Hallows" will introduce several new characters and they include Xenophilius Lovegood and Rufus Scrmigeour. Xenophilius Lovegood is undoubtedly Luna Lovegood's father. While Rufus Scrmigeour is the Minister until the Death Eaters swarm in the Minister. "Deathly Hallows" also sees the return of our beloved characters such as Dobby and Kreacher, the house elves. "Deathly Hallows" will not only introduce new characters but also new locations and they include the Malfoy Manor, where the Malfoys live. We will also see Harry, Ron and Hermione in the mortal world rather than the magical world for around half of the book such as Tottenham Court Road.A note for Harry Potter fans, you will not see Harry, Hermione and Ron in Hogwarts anymore. There will be no Quidditch games, Fred and George's shop, love potion problems or even their friends although Neville and Luna appear in small roles. So, "Deathly Hallows: Part 1" is really dark than the previous films and there will be no happy moments. But, the movie will still have some jokes, funny ones to cheer up scenes which are too heart-breaking.The movie will also see some emotional scenes that will show growth in the characters especially Ron. The relationship between Hermione and Ron would be a little bit threatened due to the quest and of course, a bit of Harry. The performances by the actors and actresses actually match the Oscar standards I would say. Emma Watson shows growth in her acting and seemed confident than ever. Rupert Grint showed some growth in his acting too by the emotional scenes given. Daniel Radcliffe seemed even more confident but was a bit less in depth compared to the other two. Overall, the movie consists of remarkable acting performances. But, I would say the one who performed best was as always from the fifth film, Helena Bonham Carter or known as the wicked Bellatrix Lestrange. The acting was totally perfect not to mention the remarkable acting contribution from Imelda Staunton or better known as Dolores Umbridge.Exciting and thrilling, I really enjoyed the film. It was dark, brilliant and perfect. Although a bit slow-paced, I still really enjoyed the film. I don't think it will disappoint any one even its book's fans. Even though the scenes were re-arranged while some excluded, it was still acceptable and as a reader of the book, I really appreciated the changes. So, book fans of the series, you wouldn't be too disappointed with the movie as the movie was loyal enough to the book. Also, the film ends with a horrifying scene related to Voldemort and it makes you have the creeps. But, that all ends in Part 2, doesn't it?Thank you David Yates for creating a very dark and amazing film. Can't wait for Part 2! Prince AJB's Score: 10/10Thanks for reading my review on "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1". Hope it's useful to you.