I saw this movie again after a few decades. There are a lot of movies from past eras that don't hold up over time, but this one does. It's just as suspenseful as it was in 1975. But the best reason to watch it is Robert Shaw's performance. You hardly ever see those type of personalities in movies anymore.

Back in 1975, "Jaws" made a huge splash (pardon the pun) in theaters. It set all sorts of box office records and made the covers of magazines all over the country. And, the film was seen as groundbreaking and amazing. When seen today, it's still a great film to watch even with it's very dated technology. In other words, the shark often looks very fake but the story is so good and handled so well, you really don't care. Excellent acting, a very nice script and excellent direction make this a definite must-see.

I re-watched this film recently and was blown away by the absolute suspense it invoked in me. My daughter (whom is 17) and I were both stunned at the quality and realism of a film made in 1975!! Our TV is 55 inches which showed the movie off to it's full potential and it certainly did not disappoint.That iconic moment of the young lady going skinny dipping in the dark with her male friend is utterly haunting. You know the horror of what's going to happen, the buoy dinging in the background gives you the chills. Steven Spielberg captures pure terror in that scene.Jaws completely absorbs you, as the trio of shark hunters venture off to try to snare the great white you begin to feel part of their adventure. You fear for them, get excited with them and dread what will happen next. When that fishing line starts spinning your heart starts pumping. This is pure class.The dynamics of Richard Dreyfuss, Roy Scheider and Robert Shaw's relationship(s) work brilliantly. The differences in their characters persona's is such that they rub each other up the wrong way, disrespect one another and wind each other up but in the end they are there for each other and develop a bond that I think surprises them all.As things begin to unravel your heart goes out to the trio and trepidation is the only way forward. They have the fight of their life on their hands, their bravery is boundless. You feel in awe of them. An absolute legend of a movie which I am grateful to have been able to watch and enjoy.

Reputationally-speaking, "Jaws" will forever be known for two things: director Steven Spielberg's unique "shark-eye view" camera work and building of suspense, and composer John Williams' two note "attack" motif that became as iconic as any piece of music ever created. Perhaps those two aspects alone would have been enough to make "Jaws" an iconic film--who knows. But the fact is, this 1975 effort is about so much more than just suspense/horror. It is one of the most well-rounded, complete movies ever made.For a very basic overview, "Jaws" tells the story of the coastal town of Amity, which suddenly and inexplicably becomes the hunting grounds for a rogue Great White shark. Sheriff Brody (Roy Scheider) wants to close down the beaches until further notice, but is opposed every step of the way by city official Vaughn (Murray Hamilton), who worries about the potential loss of tourist business. When the attacks continue, however, Brody enlists the help of shark expert Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) and grizzled boatsman Quint (Robert Shaw) to help hunt down the giant predator.As stated, the general premise and music here are well-known. But what always strikes me with each "Jaws" re-watch is how much it is a human drama as opposed to a horror piece driven by a villain (the shark, in this case).The first half of "Jaws" takes place almost entirely "on land", if you will, and focuses more on the politics of fear and commerce than anything supernatural or scary. If there are ever any doubts as to whether that material holds up, they can easily be put to rest after viewing the film through a pandemic context. Substitute "global contagious disease" for "mindless, unstoppable shark" and it's as relevant today as ever.The second half leans more towards "adventure sea chase", and is buoyed by ocean scenes that, despite being filmed 45+ years ago now, do not seen old or outdated in the least. Masterful cinematography almost always holds up, and Spielberg's behind-the-camera decisions certainly do here as well. Even then though, in the midst of a brutal and thrilling chase, Spielberg stops the action for a touching scene in which the three seaman bond over song and shared experiences.In order to fully exhibit such depth of character, great acting is required--and given here in spades. "Jaws" features a collection of unique characters that are always a joy to revisit. Scheider as the "why-won't- anyone-listen-to-me!" sheriff lets viewers relate to the story in a much more personal aspect, while Dreyfuss' Hooper is insightful, hilarious, and provides some of the best dialogue of the whole show. Of course, Shaw as Quint is singularly iconic, juxtaposing jocularity and complexity perfectly within his single character.Perhaps the greatest compliment I can give "Jaws" is that every time I see it, I can't help but be swept away in all its winning aspects. Whether it be the drama, emotion, music, thrills, adventure, visuals, acting, or just overall heart of the piece, there is not a single scene wasted or underutilized. I have absolutely no doubt that it will remain just as visceral of an experience going forward as it was for those sitting in the theaters in 1975.

Jaws (1975) **** (out of 4) Steven Spielberg's classic about a man-eating Great White shark stalking the beaches of Amity and the three men who go out to try and kill it. Seriously, is there anyone who doesn't know the plot to this masterpiece? Considering all the production trouble on this thing it would be amazing to get a half-way decent film yet for some reason, perhaps the movie Gods were shining down, we ended up with one of the greatest films ever made. This is without question one of the greatest films to deal with tension as Spielberg masterfully handles all the material. The movie is like an amazing roller coaster as we get one scare after another until the end when we just get our senses attacked from all around. Millions of people have discussed the greatness of this film so it's hard to pick one thing but I'd say the greatest achievement of the film is the simple adventure it gives us.Even though we get some very intense scenes the screenplay is smart enough to give us other things to go with. We got some nice black humor in the witty dialogue but we also get a good buddy picture with Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss delivering memorable characters. The three of them together are so different yet all three are like people I'm sure each viewer has met so it's easy to connect with them and it makes the film all the more fun when we go on this adventure.The film, of course, benefits from the brilliant John Williams score, which is perhaps the most memorable in film history. Bruce, the name given to the shark, caused most of the problems during filming but you wouldn't know that by just watching the picture. The look of the shark is incredible and Spielberg certainly made the right decision of keeping it hidden and just revealing bits and pieces as the movie went along. The first glimpse in the pond is hauntingly shocking and each sighting just grows more and more tension. The director also knows how to build suspense without us seeing the shark as we're constantly viewing objects floating (the dock, the barrels) to imply that the creature is there.What's even more amazing is that this film scared people so badly that they refused to go into the water yet the most suspenseful scene is probably the now legendary speech by Shaw about his time on the USS Indianapolis. It goes without saying but the three leads are all terrific in their roles and I really can't think of too many movies that have as many memorable characters as the ones here. We also get strong supporting work from Murray Hamilton as the Mayor and Lorraine Gary as Brody's wife.For me this ranks as one of the greatest adventures ever captured on film because everyone involved makes it feel so real. When the men get on the boat to go after the shark you feel as if you're really there. When the camera is underwater given a POV shot of the shark, you feel as if you're in the water. The final death scene in the movie also just happens to be one of the most terrifying ever captured on film and it might even be the most brutal. The movie is a true masterpiece of suspense and I think it would be fair that nothing has come close to this in the past 35 years. Like PSYCHO, we've had a lot of rips of imitations but nothing has come close to the same power and it's doubtful anything ever will.

The first summer blockbuster, the big breakthrough for Spielberg, and the shoot that ended up tripling its schedule! Jaws is a monster of a film that changed not only the moviemaking world but also the beach-goer's confidence. It is as though we are born with the knowledge of this movie. As a very young child I genuinely believed the Jaws 'Dun...Dun' always played before a real life shark attack was about to take place, I hadn't even seen the film! Something said constantly about this movie is that the terror comes from not showing the shark but from simply suggesting it. Where and when is the shark going to pop up next? This was an idea that Spielberg developed mostly due to the issues with the repeatedly breaking mechanical shark but taken also from the master of suspense himself, Hitchcock. "There is no terror in the bang, only in the anticipation of it".An important aspect of Jaws is that it shows the audience reasons to care for the characters rather than telling them to care. "Give me a kiss", "why?", "cause I need it". Chief Brody's (Roy Scheider) vulnerable side is very evident and so he is a man we can have sympathy for, we care about his family and so we care about him.The film is also very aware of what it is doing to its audiences. Brody is transfixed looking at a picture-book about sharks; he can't believe what he's seeing. Though he jumps out of his skin when his wife (Lorraine Gary) comes up behind him. We saw this coming so it was not a shock for us but it is a joke on the film itself. It is almost a cliche today but It's one of those friendly nods to the audience letting us know our director is conscious of what we're going through together.The hunt to get the shark doesn't actually start until over midway through the film. The film doesn't simply delay the hunt of the shark, it builds towards it. No one would argue that the first half of the film is slow or uneventful. A testament to the writer's brilliance of structure and timing, knowing when to unleash the beast.This is Spielberg's first film where he establishes his trademark of guiding our eye throughout each scene without drawing attention to the craft. He captures multiple angles in one take to help keep a flow to the story and an intrigue in what the characters are saying to each other. Never allowing a moment to become boring. You feel like you are in the scene with the characters. The second that you notice the way he moves the camera or blocks the scene is the moment you fall out of the movie and become a viewer. We are just as helpless as Chief Brody as we watch Alex Kintner be torn apart from afar, a point of view from Brody's powerless position.Finally, it is Brody who kills the shark, not Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) nor Quint (Robert Shaw). It is the protagonist who we have watched struggle for almost 2 hours with a beach full of people, a thoughtless mayor, and a 25-foot great white shark, 3 tons of him! It is a satisfying end. Brody kills the shark by himself while the mast of the boat sinks into the ocean like a clock hand ticking to its conclusion. Soon there will be nothing left on the surface as though the shark has consumed the film itself, but one perfect shot put a stop to that.Overall, a masterful classic that still lives up to this day. Even most of the mechanical shark shots still remain stunning and sometimes horrific. The film stays away from fantasy and sticks itself in reality which is why so many become afraid of the sea after this experience. I would have loved to discuss the making-of process more but for any Jaws fans or anyone who is interested then I would suggest you read The Jaws Log, written by one of the screenwriters for Jaws, Carl Gottlieb.

It's true, few movies tell a story better and in a more compelling way than JAWS - the original summer blockbuster, which was a world-wide smash-hit or "phenomenon" upon it's initial release in May of 1975. Forty-one years later it still stands as one of the best movies of all time and having seen it well over 100 times in the past 30 years, I can firmly attest to it's extreme longevity and at this point it would seem JAWS' ability to entertain me, myself and the masses is indefatigable. In other words: JAWS IS ETERNAL. An ageless, universally beloved masterpiece and due to the films great originality, it has always been easy for me to admire it.The films great cast of Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfus, Robert Shaw, Lorraine Grey and Murray Hamilton really pull together here and throughout the film they play off each other beautifully, the cast exudes a type of "naturalistic chemistry" that's rarely attained in movies. That's one of the key reasons why JAWS is such a cohesive and enduring movie and if you haven't noticed over the years, all of the scenes in this movie gel perfectly, with not a single scene being wasted or without purpose. Deftly directed by a 27 year-old Steven Spielberg throughout the course of mid 1974 to early 1975, the production was a troubled one (primarily due to malfunctioning mechanical sharks) and the budget ballooned to several times it's original estimate, but as the film resoundingly shows they succeeded in creating a gripping masterpiece of cinema - that's often mimicked in one way or another, but has certainly never been bettered.Set in the fictitious locale of Amity Island (as most know, in actuality it was filmed in and around Martha's Vineyard Massachusetts) JAWS tells the story of a once-pleasant sea-side community, that suddenly finds itself being terrorized, by a huge Great White shark "That's a 20-footer... 25, 3-tons of em'" that's gone -rogue- and has staked a claim off the beaches of Amity Island. Naturally this causes confusion and commotion among the town folk, bounties are set, amateur shark-hunters recklessly take to the water and throughout the bloody-tension-filled affair, the towns various entities of local government are constantly clashing with each other; in other words lots of friction and stubborn, thick-headed resistance bubble up and the tension is at times so thick, you can cut it with a knife. Basically what it is, is enough people have to be eaten by the shark, before the mayor and his circle of cronies finally pull their heads out of the sand and come to the same obvious conclusion - that Martin Brody, the sharp-witted and instinctual sheriff had already concluded. So add governmental haranguing as yet another element weaved into this intricate, yet cohesive story.The film is bi-sected into two distinctly different acts, with the first half taking place mostly on the dry ground of Amity Island, with a few boating and swimming excursions, but still largely land-based. However, in the second half, we find ourselves adrift at sea aboard Quint's boat, for the remainder of the movie - which most would agree is the more exciting part. The role of the shark-hunter "Quint" is BRILLIANTLY played by the late-great Robert Shaw and is, by far, the films most-memorable and most-colorful character. Rarely is a film character so vividly well put together and as memorable as the cantankerous Quint, with his voice being the key reason; plus he has some mighty colorful "fisherman's tales" to tell, as you will find out. You can thank the numerous other "bigger names" that, for varying reasons, turned down that role of which there were several, with Charlton Heston and Robert Mitchum being just a couple of them. The action and excitement are all cranked up several notches in the latter half of the film, with much tension between the three ship mates, Brody, Matt Hooper (a marine biologist) and the ever-salty Quint. This iconic film concludes with what's literally "Smile you son-of-a!" an explosive finale! That which has long stood as one of cinema's most memorable, if not improbable, endings.The Music: As Steven Spielberg has said, the music of John Williams is half the movie and it easily ranks as one of the most memorable and effective film scores of all-time. A powerful and ingenious orchestral score, dripping with gloomy atmosphere and with much in the way of toothy serrated menace and of course JAWS has what's probably the best-known movie theme ever written. Williams' award-winning music for JAWS not only took his career to the next level, but in a very big way helped resuscitate a dying art-form; that of course being large-scale orchestral film scores, which had been in steady decline since the mid to late 1960's. Williams' score for Star Wars just two years later would yet further benefit that cause to even greater effect.On The Oscar Front: JAWS took home three Oscar's (for, best sound recording, best score and best film editing) and damn well should of had another or two, Best Picture being one of them.Ultimately JAWS stands as a grand and regal film classic - that only an idiot (or a heretic) would not like.......and yes, because of this movie and it's infinitely lesser sequels, I shudder at the mere thought of being in the ocean.**Update**: The wreck site of Quint's ship the U.S.S. Indianapolis was discovered on August 19th 2017, by a deep-sea search team lead by Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen 72 years after her infamous sinking. Her watery grave rests some 18,000 feet below the surface of the Philippine Sea.Thanks Paul, it's been a long time coming.

45 years later, this film still has the power to entertain.
Loved this film since I was a kid.
Flawless acting, direction and production values.
Even the big rubber shark has some appeal.
My Nan used to say, they don't make em like that anymore. With Jaws she was right

I don't think its any argument that this can go down as one of the most influential films of all time as it set Hollywood on a road filled with blockbusters. At the time it was the biggest box office hit in the world and for its budget, it was quite an achievement. It still isn't without problems. There isn't much character development and the movie relies heavily on its shark attacks to keep the movie moving forward. But there isn't much arguing the movie's overall significance in the history of cinema.The first few scenes are quite a thrill even with it being almost 40 years later. Once you see the blood cover the water it instantly sends chills down your body. It takes a while for Richard Dreyfuss to get to the screen, who is by far the best part of the movie. But I would still say that the 3 men who are chosen to kill the shark aren't that interesting. But in terms of the look of the shark, I was stunned at how real it appears to be. There are some movies made now that have worse effects than this. It also amazed me at how dumb the people in this movie can be. The people on the beach are ALL aware of the recent shark attacks but yet they still feel they need to swim in the ocean. It reminds me of the citizens of New York during the Spider-Man movies. People in the world aren't that dumb.I was also taken back by the idea to break their only communication to the world on the boat. I still don't know why they destroyed it with a random baseball bat? Why is that on a boat? Nevertheless the movie did a lot for cinema and cemented its impact on special effects used.+big impact on cinema today+Richard Dreyfuss-dumb citizens and unrealistic choices7.5/10

This movie on the Top 250? Doesn't deserve it.As a gory film, this works, but as a GOOD film? Doesn't break "okay." And yet, everyone thinks it is a great shark film. (Bruce oughta eat those people.)I have only seen this once. There's 2 hours and four minutes I'll never have back.(PS: Why do I say it's okay? I can't figure that out.)

There are perils when it comes to beach and sea, on occasion they might make you want to flee, a large mandible or two, clamping down right over you, could be one, and you'll become, an absentee (or an amputee if your lucky).Three of the best performances from three outstanding actors of their day make this a perpetually piercing picture of perfection.

A man eating shark is terrorising the holiday island of Amity. Police chief Martin Brody, shark hunter Quint and marine biologist Matt Hooper set sail in the hope of killing the great white monster.Jaws is responsible for many things, it's responsible for propelling director Steven Spielberg's career into the stratosphere, it was responsible for a downturn in the package holiday trade, and it was responsible for shaping the summer blockbuster release practise's. There are many other things which one doesn't need to bore you with, it's just true to say that Jaws is firmly ensconced in movie history, if one hasn't seen it then one surely knows about it, it is, even today, part of popular culture.But is it any good? Is it worthy of a long standing reputation as one of the greatest monster movies of all time? Hell yes it is, one or two easily overlooked flaws aside, it busted the box office {world wide} and tapped into a primal fear that resides in the majority of mankind, the unseen that resides in the sea.Jaws sets out its marker right from the start with a truly shocking and attention grabbing opening sequence, from then on in Spielberg {learning from Hitchcock for sure} tweaks the tension to have the audience living on their nerves, even as character building {by way of Brody's family arc} sedates the pace, we just know that it's all relative to an extension of fear and terror that is around the next corner. After the first victims remains are found Brody glances out at the ocean, Spielberg perfectly framing the shot to say so much that we are about to be witness to. Jolts and shocks pop up from time to time to help build the unease whilst Spielberg makes the audience wait before we even see what it is that so coldly and efficiently destroys man, and then the claustrophobic switch as our brave protagonists are out at sea on Quint's boat, unaware that the giant menace is now hunting them, eyes as black as death itself.So many great scenes linger for all time in the memory, the entrance of Quint is a hum dinger, a mournful widow reducing Brody to a stunned realism, the Indianappolis monologue, the bigger boat! Just some of the reasons why I personally love cinema so much. The score from John Williams is as effective as any for the genre and Robert Hoyt's sound team's work furthers the dread unfolding. The cast are superb and uniformly excellent, casting aside technical problems {and genuine resentment at times} to portray this story with verve and genuine depth of feeling. Yet Roy Scheider {Brody}, Robert Shaw {Quint} and Richard Dreyfuss {Hooper} were from from original choices, Charlton Heston was wanted for the role of Brody, Sterling Hayden and Lee Marvin were both mooted for Quint, and John Voight was Spielberg's preferred choice for Hooper, whilst Jaws author {and co screen writer here} Peter Benchley was heading for the top by asking for Newman, Redford and McQueen!! Imagine that!Still it all turned out well in the end because Jaws stands the test of time as one of the best films of its type to have ever been made. No amount of complaining about continuity and a rough looking mechanical shark will ever dim its appeal, even as I revisited it recently for the hundredth time I still got tingles all over my body, file it along side King Kong in the pantheon of Monster Masterpieces, 10/10 always, now go enjoy your dip in the ocean.

'Jaws' is the original summer blockbuster, setting the standard by which all others are measured. It's the Michael Jordan of cinema: there will never be another 'Jaws,' simply because the film so profoundly changed the way movies are made and marketed.Based on Peter Benchley's bestselling novel, 'Jaws' centers around the fictional North Atlantic resort island of Amity, which finds itself terrorized by an enormous great white shark. Our hero is Martin Brody, a New York cop who took the job as Chief of the Amity PD to get his family out of the city and then finds himself in the midst of an unprecedented crisis none of his prior experience has prepared him for. The remains of young Christine Watkins are found on the beach, the apparent victim of a shark attack(Chrissie Watkins' death scene at the opening of the movie is one of the most legendary in the history of film). Chief Brody wants to close the beaches, but is refused permission by Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) and the Amity selectmen, all of whom fear that news of a shark attack off of Amity will threaten the summer tourist trade, on which the town depends for its very survival. The Mayor and his lackies persuade Chief Brody that such incidents are always isolated, and, inexperienced in such matters, he grudgingly agrees to keep quiet.Consequently, the shark kills again (and again), and Chief Brody eventually finds himself dealing both with his own moral guilt for agreeing to hush up the first shark attack and with an enormous human and social catastrophe which appears to be his sole responsibility. Help comes first in the form of Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss, in the role that propelled him to stardom), an icthyologist and oceanographer dispatched to Amity to lend his expertise. Together, Hooper and Brody struggle in vain against both the shark and Mayor Vaughan, who is certain that keeping the beaches open for the sake of the town's economy (and his own real-estate business) is worth the gamble.Finally, Brody and Hooper charter an expedition with the enigmatic, vaguely malevolent Quint (Robert Shaw), Amity's most feared and respected shark hunter, to find and kill the shark and save the town from financial disaster. What ensues is an epic, archetypal man vs. beast quest that would make Herman Melville and Joseph Campbell proud. Our shark, it turns out, is way above average size, terrifically swift and powerful, and uncannily smart, to boot. Hooper, the scientist, is awestruck at having encountered the Bigfoot of the sea; Quint, the crafty fisherman with a serious chip on his shoulder against sharks, realizes he has met the ultimate test of his skills; Brody, who swims poorly and is afraid of water, must overcome abject fear and disorientation just to maintain his composure. Robert Shaw's Quint is one of the greatest anti-heroes the movies have ever seen. He is funny and frightening all at once, and the famous soliloquy in which he recalls the tragic sinking of the USS Indianapolis--where, over the course of a week waiting for rescue, at least 90 US Navy personnel died from shark attack wounds--is one of the most chilling and unforgettable performances ever committed to film. 'Jaws' is the movie that made Steven Spielberg's career, and it's among his finest. It's easy to forget because of his enormously successful blockbusters that Spielberg is a phenomenally skillful and artful director. His timing is superb, he mixes horror with comedy to brilliant effect, he gets great performances out of his actors, and his love for special effects has never overwhelmed his understanding of the importance of story and character. That said, the most brilliant aspect of 'Jaws' was a serendipitous accident.The special effects team had yet to fully troubleshoot 'Bruce,' the mechanical shark, by the time filming was to begin. Under tight budget restraints and enormous studio pressure, Spielberg had no choice but to press on while his crew labored vainly to make the shark work in the cold and corrosive north Atlantic seawater. To compensate for the absence of the non-functional fake shark, Spielberg used shots from the shark's point of view and John Williams' famous two-note theme to create the illusion of the shark's presence in the early scenes. Fortunately the crew was ultimately able to get Bruce into operational status in time to film the big showdown, and some of the scenes are filled in with live-shark footage filmed by Australian underwater video pioneers Ron and Valerie Taylor. Consequently, the audience's fear is magnified by the fact that, for the majority of the film, they cannot see the shark, creating suspense towards the climax of the confrontation between man and beast on Quint's fishing boat.'Jaws' succeeds on almost every level. It is terrifying without being grotesque, and spectacular without being unbelievable (if the shark looks a little fake, remember that, at the time 'Jaws' was released, 'Space Invaders' was on the cutting edge of computer graphics design and there was no such thing as 'Shark Week on the Discovery Channel'). Roy Scheider's Brody is a quintessential everyman, an average guy beset by fear and guilt who finds himself in extraordinary circumstances and rises to the occasion. Dreyfuss' Hooper is brash and brave enough not to come off as nerdy or self-righteous, and his friendship with Brody becomes the backbone of the movie (Spielberg and screenwriter Carl Gottlieb wisely deviated from the novel in regards to the character of Hooper, who was originally Brody's nemesis). Robert Shaw's Quint is a modern-day Captain Ahab, a worthy foe for the malevolent shark. The suspense is potent and the action thrilling, but the humor, emotion, and character development make this movie much more than a summer blockbuster.

It's a testament to Spielberg's talent that he could make a movie like Jaws into a revered classic. The plot is incredible silly. You have a ocean full of perfectly edible creatures. Yet the SUPER shark only munches on people from one particular beach in New England. Yeah,un-huh, sure.But guess what, it works. Spielberg wisely builds up the suspense. We know the shark is out there and hungry. Yet we have to use our imagination on just how scary the shark is. So the tension and suspence builds and builds as the movie progresses. The New England setting works effectively. The extras all look and act like normal people. Giving the movie a sense of believability that say a Flordia beach setting would lack. The acting is wonderful. Shaw,Scneider and Dreyfuss throw themselves completely into their roles. Even if the characters are rather one dimensional. You can almost feel their fear at the climax. John Williams music is tight, but effective. Usually when Williams scores a movie he practically has music for every scene. (Which most of the time is a good thing) But keeping it to a minimum it's builds the suspence. Recommend if nothing else so many cliches stem from this movie's success. That and Kevin Smith references it in almost all his films.

Jaws is very much a spiritual child of Moby Dick, with a Great White Shark inserted in place of a giant white whale.The hunting of the shark means something different for each of the three main male leads. For Brody, killing the shark would mean ensuring the safety of his children (the relationship between parents and their children being a strong running theme in nearly all of Spielberg's films). For Hooper, the shark is just another shark. It's his job to study them and provide his expertise. That's it. Then there's Quint, a Captain Ahab like figure whose obsession places him in a fit of blind fury. To him, all sharks are the same and killing this one would operate as ultimate revenge.And like Moby Dick, Jaws is a perfectly told straightforward story depicting believable human beings and observing human behavior. Part of the joy of Jaws is watching these characters interact with each other in ways that make them seem truly alive and real, which only serves to make the threat of the shark even more threatening. We also have the land scenes of the first half that expose the stakes at the same time as it depicts the conflict between Brody and the mayor who wants to keep the beach open.And of course, the film is marvelously constructed by Spielberg. Much is made of the way he directs the scenes of suspense, but there's also very intelligent decisions being made in non-action scenes. Many shots burned into my eyes are something as simple as a quiet moment between a father and his son who is innocently ignorant of the danger at hand.

Okay, it's been 36 years now since that summer when we were all afraid to go into the water, and what was new and suspenseful and amazing then is either a milestone or a cliché, depending on who you listen to.I don't want to review the whole movie, because I don't think anyone needs a review of the whole movie. I just want to talk about one particular scene in the movie that, for me, lifted it above ordinary thriller material and put me in awe of what an actor can do.That's the scene when Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss, and Robert Shaw are on the boat "Orca," and they're all sitting around a table in the galley and they're slightly drunk. They start comparing scars, and Dreyfuss or Scheider, can't remember which, notices the tattoo that Shaw has. The one with the name "USS Indianapolis".When Shaw describes what happened to the men on the Indianapolis, what it was like, in that one scene, he makes the character of Sam Quint real, and completely understandable. Shaw makes the whole movie live and breath and crystalize in that one scene.I didn't get to see many movies when I was growing up, and when I went away to college I didn't have time or money to go to the movies. I didn't actually get to see Jaws when it first came out. But when I had time to see movies and could actually watch them on the VCR, this scene in "Jaws" was the first that actually left me in awe of what an actor could do, if he was good enough. If the material was good enough.After the movie was over, I couldn't wait to hunt up information on the USS Indianapolis and the events Shaw described. This wasn't as easy back then, around 1980, as it is now: there was no internet, so if you wanted to research something, you had to go to the library and try to find a book or magazine or archival newspaper stories. Well, I found a book about the Indianapolis and I was fascinated.I was awe-struck at the power Robert Shaw had to evoke the tragedy of the Indianapolis in that one scene. For me, that one scene made the whole movie. Shaw made me understand the character he played, and got through to make me feel the primal fear a shark can evoke.That's a powerful talent. And Shaw certainly was a powerful talent; I loved him in "The Sting" and in "A Man for All Seasons." But I think I saw him truly at his best in those magical moments of that one scene in "Jaws," when through his talent he broke through the gloss of fanciful entertainment and got right to the heart of terror, and in so doing lifted a summer suspense thriller above the ordinary into the extraordinary. I am thankful for Shaw and his art.

JawsI watched this on My Home cinema on a big screen and it really needs to be seen this way I can't say how much I enjoyed it, it really was a revelation re-visiting this classic.Just about everything was in place the acting was just incredible between Robert Shaw, Roy Scheider and Richard Dreyfus, it was a masterclass in acting it really was.The score was unbelievable and the iconic programmatic theme with the piano notes and strings at the bottom just embodied an imagined creeping threat. I could hear bits of Westside Story as well as any Bernard Herrmann as an influence it was masterful!I'd forgotten how much of the movie was about politics and a small town and the threat to its livelihood from a man eating shark, the fashions were also great as was the styling.But the key fantastic thing is the way the camera moved, moving in at the right moment on a characters face moving back to show the panorama and actually making believable a large rubber shark it was absolutely amazing.Overall I'm giving this a 10 out of 10 it would be churlish of me to deduct a point for some of the scenes where the shark looked less than believable but hey ho for entertainment value alone it's a 10.

Spielberg didn't get to be so successful by being bad...nobody does. But he did achieve success by deriving all of his imagery from even lesser sources and convincing audiences they were seeing something new. The lower the overhead cost, the greater the net profit, and this is where he first raked it in.There's nothing complex here. He simply uses the eye of "Creature from the Black Lagoon", and gives Amity and its birdbrain inhabitants the mechanics and IQ of so many 50s monster flicks. This is relatively good compared to the rest of his catalog, because the narrative is held together by someone else - here, the writer - who simply usurps the "Moby Dick" story...right down to the "Farewell and adieu..."...Shaw's Quint as Ahab. The absurdity works because of the Williams score which is straight out of the "Psycho" playbook; also the rubber shark ("Bruce") was uncooperative half of the time; it surely saved this by forcing Spielberg to show less of the creature. He had to tighten the tension in other ways. Although this is cheap and simple, that's what makes it ideal for commercial consumption. Just don't call it art - that began and pretty much ended with "Duel".

If "Jaws" succeeds at anything, it's in making the viewer really start to question what's in the water with them. You'd be hard-pressed to find anyone that wouldn't give this movie some thought before ever heading into the ocean again. This story is essentially a man versus nature tale, and serves as a reminder that although we are the most intelligent species on the planet, there are forces of nature bigger than we are."Jaws" succeeds in establishing a dynamic group of characters whose interactions with one another are interesting to watch. The war veteran turned fisherman gets his rocks off by teasing the intellectual scientist, the chief just tries to keep peace to save his community...the dynamics of the relationships were interesting enough. Where I feel "Jaws" fails is in the story department, because although we have some interesting multi-faceted characters, the plot is still that of a B-movie. The story of a shark terrorizing a coastal community could easily have been a Roger Corman production. Spielberg manages to elevate the material to A-level status with his use of great actors and a script that fleshes the characters out more than any B-movie would attempt, and his direction produces some genuine moments of suspense, but it's predictable fare. There are few surprises for the viewer, and anyone that believes the movie will end with the shark still alive hasn't seen enough Hollywood films.I commend Spielberg for making entire generations afraid to go into the water. But nevertheless let's not forget this is a popcorn film, elevated slightly by a good set of characters.

No movie can beat the brilliance of "Jaws" within the world of suspense and horror. Some movies have come close, others have even matched it and gone on as legends themselves. But none have, or ever will, surpass this Spielberg masterpiece.Everything about this movie is flawless. It's most famous for its editing and direction. There is nothing to nit-pick. Just go see it, and I will withhold judgement if for some reason you dislike it in any way. For those who are big fans of Jaws, and have not yet seen the movie that launched Spielberg's career, go watch it, it's called "Duel."

I saw this movie again after a few decades. There are a lot of movies from past eras that don't hold up over time, but this one does. It's just as suspenseful as it was in 1975. But the best reason to watch it is Robert Shaw's performance. You hardly ever see those type of personalities in movies anymore.

Back in 1975, "Jaws" made a huge splash (pardon the pun) in theaters. It set all sorts of box office records and made the covers of magazines all over the country. And, the film was seen as groundbreaking and amazing. When seen today, it's still a great film to watch even with it's very dated technology. In other words, the shark often looks very fake but the story is so good and handled so well, you really don't care. Excellent acting, a very nice script and excellent direction make this a definite must-see.

I re-watched this film recently and was blown away by the absolute suspense it invoked in me. My daughter (whom is 17) and I were both stunned at the quality and realism of a film made in 1975!! Our TV is 55 inches which showed the movie off to it's full potential and it certainly did not disappoint.That iconic moment of the young lady going skinny dipping in the dark with her male friend is utterly haunting. You know the horror of what's going to happen, the buoy dinging in the background gives you the chills. Steven Spielberg captures pure terror in that scene.Jaws completely absorbs you, as the trio of shark hunters venture off to try to snare the great white you begin to feel part of their adventure. You fear for them, get excited with them and dread what will happen next. When that fishing line starts spinning your heart starts pumping. This is pure class.The dynamics of Richard Dreyfuss, Roy Scheider and Robert Shaw's relationship(s) work brilliantly. The differences in their characters persona's is such that they rub each other up the wrong way, disrespect one another and wind each other up but in the end they are there for each other and develop a bond that I think surprises them all.As things begin to unravel your heart goes out to the trio and trepidation is the only way forward. They have the fight of their life on their hands, their bravery is boundless. You feel in awe of them. An absolute legend of a movie which I am grateful to have been able to watch and enjoy.

Reputationally-speaking, "Jaws" will forever be known for two things: director Steven Spielberg's unique "shark-eye view" camera work and building of suspense, and composer John Williams' two note "attack" motif that became as iconic as any piece of music ever created. Perhaps those two aspects alone would have been enough to make "Jaws" an iconic film--who knows. But the fact is, this 1975 effort is about so much more than just suspense/horror. It is one of the most well-rounded, complete movies ever made.For a very basic overview, "Jaws" tells the story of the coastal town of Amity, which suddenly and inexplicably becomes the hunting grounds for a rogue Great White shark. Sheriff Brody (Roy Scheider) wants to close down the beaches until further notice, but is opposed every step of the way by city official Vaughn (Murray Hamilton), who worries about the potential loss of tourist business. When the attacks continue, however, Brody enlists the help of shark expert Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) and grizzled boatsman Quint (Robert Shaw) to help hunt down the giant predator.As stated, the general premise and music here are well-known. But what always strikes me with each "Jaws" re-watch is how much it is a human drama as opposed to a horror piece driven by a villain (the shark, in this case).The first half of "Jaws" takes place almost entirely "on land", if you will, and focuses more on the politics of fear and commerce than anything supernatural or scary. If there are ever any doubts as to whether that material holds up, they can easily be put to rest after viewing the film through a pandemic context. Substitute "global contagious disease" for "mindless, unstoppable shark" and it's as relevant today as ever.The second half leans more towards "adventure sea chase", and is buoyed by ocean scenes that, despite being filmed 45+ years ago now, do not seen old or outdated in the least. Masterful cinematography almost always holds up, and Spielberg's behind-the-camera decisions certainly do here as well. Even then though, in the midst of a brutal and thrilling chase, Spielberg stops the action for a touching scene in which the three seaman bond over song and shared experiences.In order to fully exhibit such depth of character, great acting is required--and given here in spades. "Jaws" features a collection of unique characters that are always a joy to revisit. Scheider as the "why-won't- anyone-listen-to-me!" sheriff lets viewers relate to the story in a much more personal aspect, while Dreyfuss' Hooper is insightful, hilarious, and provides some of the best dialogue of the whole show. Of course, Shaw as Quint is singularly iconic, juxtaposing jocularity and complexity perfectly within his single character.Perhaps the greatest compliment I can give "Jaws" is that every time I see it, I can't help but be swept away in all its winning aspects. Whether it be the drama, emotion, music, thrills, adventure, visuals, acting, or just overall heart of the piece, there is not a single scene wasted or underutilized. I have absolutely no doubt that it will remain just as visceral of an experience going forward as it was for those sitting in the theaters in 1975.

I will never forget the first time I saw Jaws. I was glued to the seat from start to finish. I jumped, I held my breath; this was one of the experiences that made me fall in love with movies. This was probably the first film where I completely forgot everything around me. I was there, in that boat, in that gloomy cabin, with those people - everything seemed so real (and alas, the sea never looked the same again). When I watch it these days I still marvel: the atmosphere and the performances in this film are simply magical. Spielberg without the schmalz. He has never been better.My vote: 10 out of 10Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/

Jaws (1975) **** (out of 4) Steven Spielberg's classic about a man-eating Great White shark stalking the beaches of Amity and the three men who go out to try and kill it. Seriously, is there anyone who doesn't know the plot to this masterpiece? Considering all the production trouble on this thing it would be amazing to get a half-way decent film yet for some reason, perhaps the movie Gods were shining down, we ended up with one of the greatest films ever made. This is without question one of the greatest films to deal with tension as Spielberg masterfully handles all the material. The movie is like an amazing roller coaster as we get one scare after another until the end when we just get our senses attacked from all around. Millions of people have discussed the greatness of this film so it's hard to pick one thing but I'd say the greatest achievement of the film is the simple adventure it gives us.Even though we get some very intense scenes the screenplay is smart enough to give us other things to go with. We got some nice black humor in the witty dialogue but we also get a good buddy picture with Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss delivering memorable characters. The three of them together are so different yet all three are like people I'm sure each viewer has met so it's easy to connect with them and it makes the film all the more fun when we go on this adventure.The film, of course, benefits from the brilliant John Williams score, which is perhaps the most memorable in film history. Bruce, the name given to the shark, caused most of the problems during filming but you wouldn't know that by just watching the picture. The look of the shark is incredible and Spielberg certainly made the right decision of keeping it hidden and just revealing bits and pieces as the movie went along. The first glimpse in the pond is hauntingly shocking and each sighting just grows more and more tension. The director also knows how to build suspense without us seeing the shark as we're constantly viewing objects floating (the dock, the barrels) to imply that the creature is there.What's even more amazing is that this film scared people so badly that they refused to go into the water yet the most suspenseful scene is probably the now legendary speech by Shaw about his time on the USS Indianapolis. It goes without saying but the three leads are all terrific in their roles and I really can't think of too many movies that have as many memorable characters as the ones here. We also get strong supporting work from Murray Hamilton as the Mayor and Lorraine Gary as Brody's wife.For me this ranks as one of the greatest adventures ever captured on film because everyone involved makes it feel so real. When the men get on the boat to go after the shark you feel as if you're really there. When the camera is underwater given a POV shot of the shark, you feel as if you're in the water. The final death scene in the movie also just happens to be one of the most terrifying ever captured on film and it might even be the most brutal. The movie is a true masterpiece of suspense and I think it would be fair that nothing has come close to this in the past 35 years. Like PSYCHO, we've had a lot of rips of imitations but nothing has come close to the same power and it's doubtful anything ever will.

The first summer blockbuster, the big breakthrough for Spielberg, and the shoot that ended up tripling its schedule! Jaws is a monster of a film that changed not only the moviemaking world but also the beach-goer's confidence. It is as though we are born with the knowledge of this movie. As a very young child I genuinely believed the Jaws 'Dun...Dun' always played before a real life shark attack was about to take place, I hadn't even seen the film! Something said constantly about this movie is that the terror comes from not showing the shark but from simply suggesting it. Where and when is the shark going to pop up next? This was an idea that Spielberg developed mostly due to the issues with the repeatedly breaking mechanical shark but taken also from the master of suspense himself, Hitchcock. "There is no terror in the bang, only in the anticipation of it".An important aspect of Jaws is that it shows the audience reasons to care for the characters rather than telling them to care. "Give me a kiss", "why?", "cause I need it". Chief Brody's (Roy Scheider) vulnerable side is very evident and so he is a man we can have sympathy for, we care about his family and so we care about him.The film is also very aware of what it is doing to its audiences. Brody is transfixed looking at a picture-book about sharks; he can't believe what he's seeing. Though he jumps out of his skin when his wife (Lorraine Gary) comes up behind him. We saw this coming so it was not a shock for us but it is a joke on the film itself. It is almost a cliche today but It's one of those friendly nods to the audience letting us know our director is conscious of what we're going through together.The hunt to get the shark doesn't actually start until over midway through the film. The film doesn't simply delay the hunt of the shark, it builds towards it. No one would argue that the first half of the film is slow or uneventful. A testament to the writer's brilliance of structure and timing, knowing when to unleash the beast.This is Spielberg's first film where he establishes his trademark of guiding our eye throughout each scene without drawing attention to the craft. He captures multiple angles in one take to help keep a flow to the story and an intrigue in what the characters are saying to each other. Never allowing a moment to become boring. You feel like you are in the scene with the characters. The second that you notice the way he moves the camera or blocks the scene is the moment you fall out of the movie and become a viewer. We are just as helpless as Chief Brody as we watch Alex Kintner be torn apart from afar, a point of view from Brody's powerless position.Finally, it is Brody who kills the shark, not Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) nor Quint (Robert Shaw). It is the protagonist who we have watched struggle for almost 2 hours with a beach full of people, a thoughtless mayor, and a 25-foot great white shark, 3 tons of him! It is a satisfying end. Brody kills the shark by himself while the mast of the boat sinks into the ocean like a clock hand ticking to its conclusion. Soon there will be nothing left on the surface as though the shark has consumed the film itself, but one perfect shot put a stop to that.Overall, a masterful classic that still lives up to this day. Even most of the mechanical shark shots still remain stunning and sometimes horrific. The film stays away from fantasy and sticks itself in reality which is why so many become afraid of the sea after this experience. I would have loved to discuss the making-of process more but for any Jaws fans or anyone who is interested then I would suggest you read The Jaws Log, written by one of the screenwriters for Jaws, Carl Gottlieb.

There is no doubt about the fact that "Jaws" is a classic. And it is also an influential movie that helped open up for many other movies in its wake.The story in "Jaws" is one that I think everyone is familiar with, even if you haven't seen the movie before. Because it is just one of those movies that everyone knows. But briefly summarized, it is the story of a massive white shark turning up in the waters of a popular beach resort and wreaks havoc on the swimmers. Sheriff Brody teams up with eccentric captain Quint and marine biologist Matt Hooper to rid the waters of the deadly shark.While this movie was released back in 1975, the year I was born as well, it still holds its ground today. Sure, some of the effects are outdated by today's standards, but other effects still prove effective and great. What makes the movie still stand its ground is not the effects, of course, it is the solid storyline and the amazing performances by the cast."Jaws" have some really impressive and very memorable performances by Roy Scheider (playing Brody), Robert Shaw (playing Quint) and Richard Dreyfuss (playing Matt Hooper). Furthermore, there are also some good supporting appearances from Lorraine Gary (playing Ellen Brody) and Murray Hamilton (playing Mayor Larry Vaughn).It is the intense storyline of the movie that makes the movie watchable over and over again, and I don't have count of how many times I have actually watched "Jaws" throughout the years. And this is also what makes it a classic, because the movie is timeless.Furthermore, the movie also has an impressive soundtrack. And everyone knows the theme music to "Jaws", even people who might not have watched the movie."Jaws" is definitely a movie that has withstood the test of time, and it is a movie that future generations will enjoy as well, just as us who grew up watching this movie (and its sequels).

It's true, few movies tell a story better and in a more compelling way than JAWS - the original summer blockbuster, which was a world-wide smash-hit or "phenomenon" upon it's initial release in May of 1975. Forty-one years later it still stands as one of the best movies of all time and having seen it well over 100 times in the past 30 years, I can firmly attest to it's extreme longevity and at this point it would seem JAWS' ability to entertain me, myself and the masses is indefatigable. In other words: JAWS IS ETERNAL. An ageless, universally beloved masterpiece and due to the films great originality, it has always been easy for me to admire it.The films great cast of Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfus, Robert Shaw, Lorraine Grey and Murray Hamilton really pull together here and throughout the film they play off each other beautifully, the cast exudes a type of "naturalistic chemistry" that's rarely attained in movies. That's one of the key reasons why JAWS is such a cohesive and enduring movie and if you haven't noticed over the years, all of the scenes in this movie gel perfectly, with not a single scene being wasted or without purpose. Deftly directed by a 27 year-old Steven Spielberg throughout the course of mid 1974 to early 1975, the production was a troubled one (primarily due to malfunctioning mechanical sharks) and the budget ballooned to several times it's original estimate, but as the film resoundingly shows they succeeded in creating a gripping masterpiece of cinema - that's often mimicked in one way or another, but has certainly never been bettered.Set in the fictitious locale of Amity Island (as most know, in actuality it was filmed in and around Martha's Vineyard Massachusetts) JAWS tells the story of a once-pleasant sea-side community, that suddenly finds itself being terrorized, by a huge Great White shark "That's a 20-footer... 25, 3-tons of em'" that's gone -rogue- and has staked a claim off the beaches of Amity Island. Naturally this causes confusion and commotion among the town folk, bounties are set, amateur shark-hunters recklessly take to the water and throughout the bloody-tension-filled affair, the towns various entities of local government are constantly clashing with each other; in other words lots of friction and stubborn, thick-headed resistance bubble up and the tension is at times so thick, you can cut it with a knife. Basically what it is, is enough people have to be eaten by the shark, before the mayor and his circle of cronies finally pull their heads out of the sand and come to the same obvious conclusion - that Martin Brody, the sharp-witted and instinctual sheriff had already concluded. So add governmental haranguing as yet another element weaved into this intricate, yet cohesive story.The film is bi-sected into two distinctly different acts, with the first half taking place mostly on the dry ground of Amity Island, with a few boating and swimming excursions, but still largely land-based. However, in the second half, we find ourselves adrift at sea aboard Quint's boat, for the remainder of the movie - which most would agree is the more exciting part. The role of the shark-hunter "Quint" is BRILLIANTLY played by the late-great Robert Shaw and is, by far, the films most-memorable and most-colorful character. Rarely is a film character so vividly well put together and as memorable as the cantankerous Quint, with his voice being the key reason; plus he has some mighty colorful "fisherman's tales" to tell, as you will find out. You can thank the numerous other "bigger names" that, for varying reasons, turned down that role of which there were several, with Charlton Heston and Robert Mitchum being just a couple of them. The action and excitement are all cranked up several notches in the latter half of the film, with much tension between the three ship mates, Brody, Matt Hooper (a marine biologist) and the ever-salty Quint. This iconic film concludes with what's literally "Smile you son-of-a!" an explosive finale! That which has long stood as one of cinema's most memorable, if not improbable, endings.The Music: As Steven Spielberg has said, the music of John Williams is half the movie and it easily ranks as one of the most memorable and effective film scores of all-time. A powerful and ingenious orchestral score, dripping with gloomy atmosphere and with much in the way of toothy serrated menace and of course JAWS has what's probably the best-known movie theme ever written. Williams' award-winning music for JAWS not only took his career to the next level, but in a very big way helped resuscitate a dying art-form; that of course being large-scale orchestral film scores, which had been in steady decline since the mid to late 1960's. Williams' score for Star Wars just two years later would yet further benefit that cause to even greater effect.On The Oscar Front: JAWS took home three Oscar's (for, best sound recording, best score and best film editing) and damn well should of had another or two, Best Picture being one of them.Ultimately JAWS stands as a grand and regal film classic - that only an idiot (or a heretic) would not like.......and yes, because of this movie and it's infinitely lesser sequels, I shudder at the mere thought of being in the ocean.**Update**: The wreck site of Quint's ship the U.S.S. Indianapolis was discovered on August 19th 2017, by a deep-sea search team lead by Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen 72 years after her infamous sinking. Her watery grave rests some 18,000 feet below the surface of the Philippine Sea.Thanks Paul, it's been a long time coming.

Can't believe the movie was made in 1970s. It's even better than some movies made nowadays especially the special effects. The shark looks so real and the culling scenes are extraordinarily real. The crew spent two years to make the movie, receiving 67 million viewers globally. It was cinematically played in 14 countries in 17 different languages and was nominated for 18 awards. Although the plot may be a little tedious in these days but It was a milestone for horror movies in the 70s and 80s. The director, Steven Spielberg is also a legendary film maker. He has produced and directed many great movies. I recommend to buy the DVD for this movie because there are many things you don't see on streaming/in cinemas.

45 years later, this film still has the power to entertain.
Loved this film since I was a kid.
Flawless acting, direction and production values.
Even the big rubber shark has some appeal.
My Nan used to say, they don't make em like that anymore. With Jaws she was right

I don't think its any argument that this can go down as one of the most influential films of all time as it set Hollywood on a road filled with blockbusters. At the time it was the biggest box office hit in the world and for its budget, it was quite an achievement. It still isn't without problems. There isn't much character development and the movie relies heavily on its shark attacks to keep the movie moving forward. But there isn't much arguing the movie's overall significance in the history of cinema.The first few scenes are quite a thrill even with it being almost 40 years later. Once you see the blood cover the water it instantly sends chills down your body. It takes a while for Richard Dreyfuss to get to the screen, who is by far the best part of the movie. But I would still say that the 3 men who are chosen to kill the shark aren't that interesting. But in terms of the look of the shark, I was stunned at how real it appears to be. There are some movies made now that have worse effects than this. It also amazed me at how dumb the people in this movie can be. The people on the beach are ALL aware of the recent shark attacks but yet they still feel they need to swim in the ocean. It reminds me of the citizens of New York during the Spider-Man movies. People in the world aren't that dumb.I was also taken back by the idea to break their only communication to the world on the boat. I still don't know why they destroyed it with a random baseball bat? Why is that on a boat? Nevertheless the movie did a lot for cinema and cemented its impact on special effects used.+big impact on cinema today+Richard Dreyfuss-dumb citizens and unrealistic choices7.5/10

This movie on the Top 250? Doesn't deserve it.As a gory film, this works, but as a GOOD film? Doesn't break "okay." And yet, everyone thinks it is a great shark film. (Bruce oughta eat those people.)I have only seen this once. There's 2 hours and four minutes I'll never have back.(PS: Why do I say it's okay? I can't figure that out.)

There are perils when it comes to beach and sea, on occasion they might make you want to flee, a large mandible or two, clamping down right over you, could be one, and you'll become, an absentee (or an amputee if your lucky).Three of the best performances from three outstanding actors of their day make this a perpetually piercing picture of perfection.

A man eating shark is terrorising the holiday island of Amity. Police chief Martin Brody, shark hunter Quint and marine biologist Matt Hooper set sail in the hope of killing the great white monster.Jaws is responsible for many things, it's responsible for propelling director Steven Spielberg's career into the stratosphere, it was responsible for a downturn in the package holiday trade, and it was responsible for shaping the summer blockbuster release practise's. There are many other things which one doesn't need to bore you with, it's just true to say that Jaws is firmly ensconced in movie history, if one hasn't seen it then one surely knows about it, it is, even today, part of popular culture.But is it any good? Is it worthy of a long standing reputation as one of the greatest monster movies of all time? Hell yes it is, one or two easily overlooked flaws aside, it busted the box office {world wide} and tapped into a primal fear that resides in the majority of mankind, the unseen that resides in the sea.Jaws sets out its marker right from the start with a truly shocking and attention grabbing opening sequence, from then on in Spielberg {learning from Hitchcock for sure} tweaks the tension to have the audience living on their nerves, even as character building {by way of Brody's family arc} sedates the pace, we just know that it's all relative to an extension of fear and terror that is around the next corner. After the first victims remains are found Brody glances out at the ocean, Spielberg perfectly framing the shot to say so much that we are about to be witness to. Jolts and shocks pop up from time to time to help build the unease whilst Spielberg makes the audience wait before we even see what it is that so coldly and efficiently destroys man, and then the claustrophobic switch as our brave protagonists are out at sea on Quint's boat, unaware that the giant menace is now hunting them, eyes as black as death itself.So many great scenes linger for all time in the memory, the entrance of Quint is a hum dinger, a mournful widow reducing Brody to a stunned realism, the Indianappolis monologue, the bigger boat! Just some of the reasons why I personally love cinema so much. The score from John Williams is as effective as any for the genre and Robert Hoyt's sound team's work furthers the dread unfolding. The cast are superb and uniformly excellent, casting aside technical problems {and genuine resentment at times} to portray this story with verve and genuine depth of feeling. Yet Roy Scheider {Brody}, Robert Shaw {Quint} and Richard Dreyfuss {Hooper} were from from original choices, Charlton Heston was wanted for the role of Brody, Sterling Hayden and Lee Marvin were both mooted for Quint, and John Voight was Spielberg's preferred choice for Hooper, whilst Jaws author {and co screen writer here} Peter Benchley was heading for the top by asking for Newman, Redford and McQueen!! Imagine that!Still it all turned out well in the end because Jaws stands the test of time as one of the best films of its type to have ever been made. No amount of complaining about continuity and a rough looking mechanical shark will ever dim its appeal, even as I revisited it recently for the hundredth time I still got tingles all over my body, file it along side King Kong in the pantheon of Monster Masterpieces, 10/10 always, now go enjoy your dip in the ocean.

Watching Jaws today, the film has just as much impact as it did back in 1975. Why? Because, rather than relying on special effects, the film relies on characters, dialogue and atmosphere. The shark's presence is always felt, even though it is rarely seen. However, what you remember most from this film are the characters. The interaction on the boat between the three leads is cinema perfection. The filmmakers of today have lost their way in a sea of weightless CGI and meaningless noise. A true masterpiece "monster movie" begins with good characters and atmosphere, the effects are merely the icing on the cake.

'Jaws' is the original summer blockbuster, setting the standard by which all others are measured. It's the Michael Jordan of cinema: there will never be another 'Jaws,' simply because the film so profoundly changed the way movies are made and marketed.Based on Peter Benchley's bestselling novel, 'Jaws' centers around the fictional North Atlantic resort island of Amity, which finds itself terrorized by an enormous great white shark. Our hero is Martin Brody, a New York cop who took the job as Chief of the Amity PD to get his family out of the city and then finds himself in the midst of an unprecedented crisis none of his prior experience has prepared him for. The remains of young Christine Watkins are found on the beach, the apparent victim of a shark attack(Chrissie Watkins' death scene at the opening of the movie is one of the most legendary in the history of film). Chief Brody wants to close the beaches, but is refused permission by Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) and the Amity selectmen, all of whom fear that news of a shark attack off of Amity will threaten the summer tourist trade, on which the town depends for its very survival. The Mayor and his lackies persuade Chief Brody that such incidents are always isolated, and, inexperienced in such matters, he grudgingly agrees to keep quiet.Consequently, the shark kills again (and again), and Chief Brody eventually finds himself dealing both with his own moral guilt for agreeing to hush up the first shark attack and with an enormous human and social catastrophe which appears to be his sole responsibility. Help comes first in the form of Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss, in the role that propelled him to stardom), an icthyologist and oceanographer dispatched to Amity to lend his expertise. Together, Hooper and Brody struggle in vain against both the shark and Mayor Vaughan, who is certain that keeping the beaches open for the sake of the town's economy (and his own real-estate business) is worth the gamble.Finally, Brody and Hooper charter an expedition with the enigmatic, vaguely malevolent Quint (Robert Shaw), Amity's most feared and respected shark hunter, to find and kill the shark and save the town from financial disaster. What ensues is an epic, archetypal man vs. beast quest that would make Herman Melville and Joseph Campbell proud. Our shark, it turns out, is way above average size, terrifically swift and powerful, and uncannily smart, to boot. Hooper, the scientist, is awestruck at having encountered the Bigfoot of the sea; Quint, the crafty fisherman with a serious chip on his shoulder against sharks, realizes he has met the ultimate test of his skills; Brody, who swims poorly and is afraid of water, must overcome abject fear and disorientation just to maintain his composure. Robert Shaw's Quint is one of the greatest anti-heroes the movies have ever seen. He is funny and frightening all at once, and the famous soliloquy in which he recalls the tragic sinking of the USS Indianapolis--where, over the course of a week waiting for rescue, at least 90 US Navy personnel died from shark attack wounds--is one of the most chilling and unforgettable performances ever committed to film. 'Jaws' is the movie that made Steven Spielberg's career, and it's among his finest. It's easy to forget because of his enormously successful blockbusters that Spielberg is a phenomenally skillful and artful director. His timing is superb, he mixes horror with comedy to brilliant effect, he gets great performances out of his actors, and his love for special effects has never overwhelmed his understanding of the importance of story and character. That said, the most brilliant aspect of 'Jaws' was a serendipitous accident.The special effects team had yet to fully troubleshoot 'Bruce,' the mechanical shark, by the time filming was to begin. Under tight budget restraints and enormous studio pressure, Spielberg had no choice but to press on while his crew labored vainly to make the shark work in the cold and corrosive north Atlantic seawater. To compensate for the absence of the non-functional fake shark, Spielberg used shots from the shark's point of view and John Williams' famous two-note theme to create the illusion of the shark's presence in the early scenes. Fortunately the crew was ultimately able to get Bruce into operational status in time to film the big showdown, and some of the scenes are filled in with live-shark footage filmed by Australian underwater video pioneers Ron and Valerie Taylor. Consequently, the audience's fear is magnified by the fact that, for the majority of the film, they cannot see the shark, creating suspense towards the climax of the confrontation between man and beast on Quint's fishing boat.'Jaws' succeeds on almost every level. It is terrifying without being grotesque, and spectacular without being unbelievable (if the shark looks a little fake, remember that, at the time 'Jaws' was released, 'Space Invaders' was on the cutting edge of computer graphics design and there was no such thing as 'Shark Week on the Discovery Channel'). Roy Scheider's Brody is a quintessential everyman, an average guy beset by fear and guilt who finds himself in extraordinary circumstances and rises to the occasion. Dreyfuss' Hooper is brash and brave enough not to come off as nerdy or self-righteous, and his friendship with Brody becomes the backbone of the movie (Spielberg and screenwriter Carl Gottlieb wisely deviated from the novel in regards to the character of Hooper, who was originally Brody's nemesis). Robert Shaw's Quint is a modern-day Captain Ahab, a worthy foe for the malevolent shark. The suspense is potent and the action thrilling, but the humor, emotion, and character development make this movie much more than a summer blockbuster.

Steven Spielberg will forever be linked with some of the greatest movies on all time, everyone knows Jaws, and everyone will recognise the iconic music. Superior to the mostly disappointing follow ups that came, nothing quite matched this.Jaws shows the power of film, a film that changed people's perceptions of white sharks for decades, fortunately people have a much better understanding of the majestic apex predators these days.Action packed, fast moving, it's the threat of what's lurking beneath that makes this such a thrill ride, with a land predator you can see it, with a shark, you have no idea where it's going to spring from.Iconic lines throughout, it's not without a touch of humour.Re watched 12.27.22.

It's a testament to Spielberg's talent that he could make a movie like Jaws into a revered classic. The plot is incredible silly. You have a ocean full of perfectly edible creatures. Yet the SUPER shark only munches on people from one particular beach in New England. Yeah,un-huh, sure.But guess what, it works. Spielberg wisely builds up the suspense. We know the shark is out there and hungry. Yet we have to use our imagination on just how scary the shark is. So the tension and suspence builds and builds as the movie progresses. The New England setting works effectively. The extras all look and act like normal people. Giving the movie a sense of believability that say a Flordia beach setting would lack. The acting is wonderful. Shaw,Scneider and Dreyfuss throw themselves completely into their roles. Even if the characters are rather one dimensional. You can almost feel their fear at the climax. John Williams music is tight, but effective. Usually when Williams scores a movie he practically has music for every scene. (Which most of the time is a good thing) But keeping it to a minimum it's builds the suspence. Recommend if nothing else so many cliches stem from this movie's success. That and Kevin Smith references it in almost all his films.

Jaws is very much a spiritual child of Moby Dick, with a Great White Shark inserted in place of a giant white whale.The hunting of the shark means something different for each of the three main male leads. For Brody, killing the shark would mean ensuring the safety of his children (the relationship between parents and their children being a strong running theme in nearly all of Spielberg's films). For Hooper, the shark is just another shark. It's his job to study them and provide his expertise. That's it. Then there's Quint, a Captain Ahab like figure whose obsession places him in a fit of blind fury. To him, all sharks are the same and killing this one would operate as ultimate revenge.And like Moby Dick, Jaws is a perfectly told straightforward story depicting believable human beings and observing human behavior. Part of the joy of Jaws is watching these characters interact with each other in ways that make them seem truly alive and real, which only serves to make the threat of the shark even more threatening. We also have the land scenes of the first half that expose the stakes at the same time as it depicts the conflict between Brody and the mayor who wants to keep the beach open.And of course, the film is marvelously constructed by Spielberg. Much is made of the way he directs the scenes of suspense, but there's also very intelligent decisions being made in non-action scenes. Many shots burned into my eyes are something as simple as a quiet moment between a father and his son who is innocently ignorant of the danger at hand.

Okay, it's been 36 years now since that summer when we were all afraid to go into the water, and what was new and suspenseful and amazing then is either a milestone or a cliché, depending on who you listen to.I don't want to review the whole movie, because I don't think anyone needs a review of the whole movie. I just want to talk about one particular scene in the movie that, for me, lifted it above ordinary thriller material and put me in awe of what an actor can do.That's the scene when Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss, and Robert Shaw are on the boat "Orca," and they're all sitting around a table in the galley and they're slightly drunk. They start comparing scars, and Dreyfuss or Scheider, can't remember which, notices the tattoo that Shaw has. The one with the name "USS Indianapolis".When Shaw describes what happened to the men on the Indianapolis, what it was like, in that one scene, he makes the character of Sam Quint real, and completely understandable. Shaw makes the whole movie live and breath and crystalize in that one scene.I didn't get to see many movies when I was growing up, and when I went away to college I didn't have time or money to go to the movies. I didn't actually get to see Jaws when it first came out. But when I had time to see movies and could actually watch them on the VCR, this scene in "Jaws" was the first that actually left me in awe of what an actor could do, if he was good enough. If the material was good enough.After the movie was over, I couldn't wait to hunt up information on the USS Indianapolis and the events Shaw described. This wasn't as easy back then, around 1980, as it is now: there was no internet, so if you wanted to research something, you had to go to the library and try to find a book or magazine or archival newspaper stories. Well, I found a book about the Indianapolis and I was fascinated.I was awe-struck at the power Robert Shaw had to evoke the tragedy of the Indianapolis in that one scene. For me, that one scene made the whole movie. Shaw made me understand the character he played, and got through to make me feel the primal fear a shark can evoke.That's a powerful talent. And Shaw certainly was a powerful talent; I loved him in "The Sting" and in "A Man for All Seasons." But I think I saw him truly at his best in those magical moments of that one scene in "Jaws," when through his talent he broke through the gloss of fanciful entertainment and got right to the heart of terror, and in so doing lifted a summer suspense thriller above the ordinary into the extraordinary. I am thankful for Shaw and his art.

JawsI watched this on My Home cinema on a big screen and it really needs to be seen this way I can't say how much I enjoyed it, it really was a revelation re-visiting this classic.Just about everything was in place the acting was just incredible between Robert Shaw, Roy Scheider and Richard Dreyfus, it was a masterclass in acting it really was.The score was unbelievable and the iconic programmatic theme with the piano notes and strings at the bottom just embodied an imagined creeping threat. I could hear bits of Westside Story as well as any Bernard Herrmann as an influence it was masterful!I'd forgotten how much of the movie was about politics and a small town and the threat to its livelihood from a man eating shark, the fashions were also great as was the styling.But the key fantastic thing is the way the camera moved, moving in at the right moment on a characters face moving back to show the panorama and actually making believable a large rubber shark it was absolutely amazing.Overall I'm giving this a 10 out of 10 it would be churlish of me to deduct a point for some of the scenes where the shark looked less than believable but hey ho for entertainment value alone it's a 10.

Spielberg didn't get to be so successful by being bad...nobody does. But he did achieve success by deriving all of his imagery from even lesser sources and convincing audiences they were seeing something new. The lower the overhead cost, the greater the net profit, and this is where he first raked it in.There's nothing complex here. He simply uses the eye of "Creature from the Black Lagoon", and gives Amity and its birdbrain inhabitants the mechanics and IQ of so many 50s monster flicks. This is relatively good compared to the rest of his catalog, because the narrative is held together by someone else - here, the writer - who simply usurps the "Moby Dick" story...right down to the "Farewell and adieu..."...Shaw's Quint as Ahab. The absurdity works because of the Williams score which is straight out of the "Psycho" playbook; also the rubber shark ("Bruce") was uncooperative half of the time; it surely saved this by forcing Spielberg to show less of the creature. He had to tighten the tension in other ways. Although this is cheap and simple, that's what makes it ideal for commercial consumption. Just don't call it art - that began and pretty much ended with "Duel".

If "Jaws" succeeds at anything, it's in making the viewer really start to question what's in the water with them. You'd be hard-pressed to find anyone that wouldn't give this movie some thought before ever heading into the ocean again. This story is essentially a man versus nature tale, and serves as a reminder that although we are the most intelligent species on the planet, there are forces of nature bigger than we are."Jaws" succeeds in establishing a dynamic group of characters whose interactions with one another are interesting to watch. The war veteran turned fisherman gets his rocks off by teasing the intellectual scientist, the chief just tries to keep peace to save his community...the dynamics of the relationships were interesting enough. Where I feel "Jaws" fails is in the story department, because although we have some interesting multi-faceted characters, the plot is still that of a B-movie. The story of a shark terrorizing a coastal community could easily have been a Roger Corman production. Spielberg manages to elevate the material to A-level status with his use of great actors and a script that fleshes the characters out more than any B-movie would attempt, and his direction produces some genuine moments of suspense, but it's predictable fare. There are few surprises for the viewer, and anyone that believes the movie will end with the shark still alive hasn't seen enough Hollywood films.I commend Spielberg for making entire generations afraid to go into the water. But nevertheless let's not forget this is a popcorn film, elevated slightly by a good set of characters.

Simply one of the best movies I've ever seen. Start to finish- it's near impossible to find fault in this movie. Peak Spielberg, directing a perfectly written script, perfectly acted by a talented cast with almost impenetrably good special effects captured flawlessly by the cinematographer and crew. That's without even considering John Williams' amazing soundtrack. A nearly perfect film. It starts, happens, and ends without the viewer even being aware that it's happening. And then you realize that that you just watched a timeless classic of a film that I'm confident will endure as long as people are sane because of it's overall quality. There are literally no faults with this movie. A top 5 all time for me.