"Monty Python and the Holy Grail" (1975) is a genius piece of British comedy. If you want to get as much out of it as possible, there are a few things you need to keep in mind before watching:This movie is absolute nuts. First some cautions, though - there is some gore and blood (although so over-the-top is comedic), a few scenes which might be classified as religiously offensive, and a longer scene which is highly sexually suggestive. All these things can be uncomfortable for people that are sensitive to the respective categories and should in that case be taken into account.As for the rest of the movie, it is insane. Humor is usually created when there is a plot-twist that deviates from one's expectations, and in that sense, this movie is nothing but humor. Its sole purpose is to make sure the viewer never stands steady and comfortable in what to expect, and that this the only expectation one can have. If quirky yet brilliant and genius humor like this is appreciated, Monty Python and the Holy Grail is an absolute feast, and make sure to watch the Special Editions that features the short "Dentist On the Job."My personal grade: a hilarious 8/10. If you found this helpful, check my profile for more reviews.

I do know, however, that Monty Python and the Holy Grail is one of the funniest movies ever made. Let's face it, if the Python hadn't showed up in 1969, someone would have created them by now, or the world would be a much sadder place. Alongside Life of Brian, which is the sextet's masterpiece, Holy Grail is an excellent start if you want to get addicted to their surreal humor.As suggested in the title, the film deals with the Arthurian stories, freely reinterpreted by the Python ensemble: after recruiting his knights, including Sir Lancelot (John Cleese), Sir Robin (Eric Idle), Sir Bedevere (Terry Jones) and Sir Galahad (Michael Palin), King Arthur (Graham Chapman) embarks on a mission from God (also Chapman, voice only though): to seek and find the Holy Grail. No need to say, the journey is going to be perilous, but also hilarious, our heroes doing their "best" to screw everything up.As in Life of Brian, there are so many good bits choosing just one or two feels reductive and disrespectful, given the material. It's pure comedy gold from start to finish, a non-stop gag marathon: from the mock Scandinavian subtitles in the opening credits to the argument about swallows, from the Killer Rabbit to the Black Knight and the jaw-dropping epilogue, you will keep grinning like never before (if you're unfamiliar with these comedians, that is). Actually, after some serious thinking I can select two particular sequences as particularly memorable: the Knights who say "Ni!" and the Bridge of Death. The rest of the film is ace too, but those two scenes are the ones I can't stop thinking of fondly whenever the movie is mentioned.Oh, and let's not forget Terry Gilliam's vital contribution: he doesn't appear that much as an actor (his Bridgekeeper is absolute genius, though), but he compensates that with the remarkable animations used to depict part of this epic adventure. Speaking of epic, this picture has one of the most brilliant tag-lines in comedy history, if not film history in general.Oh yes, the world wouldn't be quite the same without the Monty Python. Even the most miserable person on the planet will laugh like a lunatic after viewing any of their films.P.S. Ni!

King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table set out on a quest to find the Holy Grail...as told to do so by a cartoon God that lives in the clouds... Easily the most hilarious and original comedy ever made, Monty Python and the Holy Grail claims it's undisputed throne through insanely ridiculous situations and characters that will very likely never be duplicated. Pure comedic genius that doesn't go stale with age or decades of competition having been released. Simply seeing the way comedy films are made today, this film will very likely have a long reign before anything can even hold a candle to it. An absolute belly-laugh fest that never lets up.Only the cast of Monty Python could have pulled this film off, with each actor playing many different characters...all hilarious! The genius in the actors' lines themselves are truly to be admired. The comedic style of talking in circles is one technique that most comedies do not try to do, simply because they can't compete with the genius of this film, which uses it flawlessly. Those that do try usually fall flat on their faces. Two particularly excellent examples of this can be seen in the beginning scene, in which the characters discuss the origins of coconuts.....and the other when Lancelot breaks into the swamp castle to save the "damsel in distress." This is merely one technique that the cast has perfected to conjure up laughs consistently throughout the entire film. The only way that I can imagine that someone might not like this film is if they simply do not enjoy it's type of humor. Too bad for them.Another hilarious technique used in the film is the use of comedy in the background. From people slamming cats against poles for no apparent reason, to people filling up baskets with mud in the fields....all very strange and hilarious at the same time. It's also simply amazing that all of the characters are played by the same group of actors, which shows the great range all of them have. Some are simply unrecognizable from one character to the other and it sometimes takes a good eye to pick them out, which makes it fun. And I don't want to ruin it for anyone, but this film takes some turns that no sane person could see coming.Ridiculous characters in ridiculous situations equals ridiculous laughter.The epitome of all-star comedy that will no doubt continue to stand the test of time. Kudos to Gilliam and the rest of the Python crew. If you haven't seen it yet, make it your first priority in life!

The first time I saw this was on CBS at 11:30 on a Friday night. I had seen a few Monty Python shows on PBS, so I knew who they were, and I was very interested in seeing this.This film shows you just what all around comedy is all about.It starts during the opening credits and ends in a way you don't see coming. The songs are....memorable. The drawings/animation are imaginative for its time and the Monty Python troupe was at its shining best playing a host of characters from the days of King Arthur. If you don't laugh at this today, you have no funny bone! Many other reviewers here hit this film on the nose, there isn't much more to add to how brilliant this piece of work it.This is one of my all time favorites and is one of the top 10 films of all time.

This is such a great film that a professor of mine actually used it in a Medieval Civilization class as extra credit. This was not because the movie was so historically accurate, but because the movie was so much funnier when we applied what we learned in her class to it! It was really hard to pick only 10 funny lines!To anyone that watched it once and didn't quite get it or got frustrated the first time, here is a tip: Catch it on DVD with the subtitles or closed-captioning on. That way you will be sure to catch all of the French insults and the other one-liners that fly by so fast! I don't recommend doing that with kids in the room - my 7-year-old picked up a couple of words on the screen that he had missed previously...Enjoy!

To review "Monty Python & the Holy Grail", there are five schools, I mean three : 1--- The Ecstatic Review : One of the greatest laugh riots ever committed on the big screen, an epic quest of absurdity like only the glorious Monty Python could have lead.2--- The Not-so-ecstatic-but-no-less-enthusiastic Review : Damn, I wish the movie was longer, couldn't they get more budget, it's such a shame. Oh, well, I had a great time, and only for the opening credits, the movie deserves its reputation.1--- The Ecstatic Review (again): You don't get it, Harold, that's exactly the point, it's a low-budget film, and its apparently low quality contributed to the high popularity of the film. Man, it's called a parody.2--- The Not-so-ecstatic-but-no-less-enthusiastic Review : I know, what a parody is, Bernard, thank you. But my point was that the movie could have been so much better if only  *** WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE FAULT IN THE REVIEW. HAROLD AND BERNARD HAVE BEEN SACKED *** 3--- The Not-ecstatic-not-really-enthusiastic-in-fact-quite-negative Review : This movie is so flawed I don't even know where to start, hell, they didn't even have horses and  Aaaaarggggh! *** WE APOLOGIZE AGAIN, FOR THE NEGATIVITY EXPRESSED IN THAT REVIEW. THE AUTHOR HAS BEEN S WELL, SHALL WE SAY, HE MET WITH AN UNFORTUNATE ACCIDENT *** As I was saying, to review "Monty Python & the Holy Grail", there are three, I mean two schools of review that actually can both be fused into one unique review, MINE, so let me be the bard to sing the praises of this epic tale of hilarity through : I--- The Self-Hedonistic-Introspectively-Tautological Review : The comic genius of the film is so surrealistic it goes beyond any reasonable attempt to measure, judge and therefore give it a proper review. It would be like answering the eternal question : "What's the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow?" I think one should consider the wisdom of Sir Bevedere who said that "The Earth is banana shaped", an interestingly fruity allusion which is not without reminding Newton's apple that would revolutionize the law of Physics and originate one of the most important principles governing the film, the one I call  1/ The 'Tarte Tatin' principle :This culinary example might satisfy the descendants of the French "Ka-niggets", the tart was basically invented when a woman who burnt her apple pie rescued it by putting the pastry on the apples and turning out the upside down tart. The result became a famous and delicious dessert. "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" works the same way, it's botched, disjointed, irreverent, turning into derision every cinematic mechanism of the epic genre, but the result is just one of the funniest laugh-out-loud comedies and one of the perfect examples of the level of sophistication and unlimitedness that absurdity can reach, the one I call 2/ The 'Red Nose' principle : "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is a succession of incoherent episodic sketches governed by strong coherence in absurd style and surrealistic comedy, and vice versa. The film is the celebration of the boundlessness of comedy. Here's a mathematical demonstration that would have made Sir Bevedere proud : let's admit, by hypothesis, that there was one limit "NI" that comedy could never exceed. Now, what is the definition of comedy? According to the Oxford dictionary, it's a "professional entertainment consisting of jokes and sketches, intended to make an audience laugh". Now, if "NI" existed, that would mean that there would be no comedic purposes in anything above that "Nl" level, which indirectly means that there's absolutely no one who would ever laugh to any subject implying the use of comedy above the "Nu"  sorry the "NI" level, in other words, anything above the "Nl" level could be admitted as 100% serious. But consider that total seriousness is so psychologically oppressive that it inevitably implies the use of a comical element to relieve the tension. And the use of a comic relief is even more necessary in a totally serious narrative. So, from a reductio-ad-absurdum, I've demonstrated that even in the existence of a limit above which we can't laugh, we realize that not only we can, but we should. Quod Erat Demonstratum. Whatever seriousness you build, whatever order you create, it's meant to collapse. That's the principle, the one I call  3/ The 'Castle of Cards' principle :The castle of cards has only one goal in its short existence, to collapse. It's the perfect demonstration of the ephemeral essence of any organized and perfectly structured entity. And the higher it gets, the closer is the cataclysm. What's that to mean? "Monty Python & the Holy Grail" highlights the eternal victory of anarchy over order, and how even anarchy can be appealing. It's a perfect assemblage of chaotic situations, that gets your mind acclimated to the so universal and true unpredictability of life. Nothing can surprise you, yet everything is absolutely surprising : a three-headed knight, a black knight who continues the fight even if he's totally chopped off, a witch with a fake noise, a castle full of virgins with nymphomaniac impulses, a harmless bunny that can decapitate you in one second, and one of the worst cases of cinematic party pooping ever. Everything is built up until it dramatically ends in one of the most brilliantly abrupt endings, demonstrating the inevitable destruction of every measurable structure. World was created from chaos and it will end up in chaos in such a pointlessness that absurdity is the only language that could define it. Also ...*** ANY ATTEMPT TO TAKE THIS REVIEW SERIOUSLY WILL BE PUNISHED BY MOOSE TRAMPLING, ACCORDING TO THE SEVERE BUT FAIR LAW OF SVENSONLUNDERJUNGERGUNDESON***

Whether you love it or hate it, Monty Python is forever etched into British comedy history and this edition of the filmic Python exploits has stood the test of time, just.The thing with Monty Python is that it's very random. The bizarreness and variedness of the humour is really something to behold and there are numerous examples in this film alone which backs this up. Whether it's a completely random and insane discussion-come-argument about swallows to a really scathing, surreal attack on how the English dealt with the 'black death' or the 'plague' or whatever killer virus' were going around back then, in the carefree manner that is shown. It can be a joy to behold.With this film, we are instantly thrown into a world of confusion as the 'projectionist' actually loads up the wrong film to begin with. From here, you know something's up as no other film that I've ever seen or heard of has a beginning like this and you know that this is going to be different. Once the real film has started, the dialogue in the early scenes superbly juxtaposes the setting in 900 odd B.C. as political arguments and, as I've mentioned, discussions about migratory birds pop up. It feels like an extra long episode of a comic, sketch TV programme which has no real plot, but is just a montage of jokes and hilarious situations the characters find themselves in and this isn't a bad thing. The great thing about this is, is that the early situations and exchanges work as a flame for us, the moths, and it sets the stage very well; drawing us into the world of humour on show. Since no one around now knows exactly what happened in the time of the films setting, no one can argue whether any of this would really happen. Were minstrels who followed people/knights around that annoying? What did knights guarding the turrets of castles actually do/talk about to pass the time? Swallows maybe? Effective little scenarios like this make you wonder and it just adds to the genius of the writing.One of the early scenes has to be one of the funniest in films entire one hundred year plus history. This is the fight scene between Arthur and the black knight. Following on from a good fight scene, the black knight delivers some of the funniest lines in the most funniest of ways following his own decapitation. The line: 'All right, we'll call it a draw.' has me in stitches just thinking about it.One quarrel I have with the film is the animated sequences. Now, they look terribly dated and really aren't that funny. Fortunately, they only last a few seconds (most of them) and don't distract you too much but why even bother to have them in the first place? The titles in-between the knight's own separate stories are fine but little things like the 'artist suddenly having a heart attack' just insult the viewer. Not good, unfortunately.I think most people would have a problem with the characters who talk to the screen, breaking the 'fourth wall', something which was stamped out of narrative film-making decades ago. I had a minor frustration with this as although it only happened twice from memory, it spoilt what was a perfectly good/funny scene. The incident in the castle full of young girls is the one which immediately springs to mind as she starts talking to the audience. In an analytical sense, this is actually supposed to add to the experience in the sense that it's all theatre anyway and this film shouldn't be taken seriously. It's fun and farcical and that's all that matters. I didn't let it get away with it when it came to the rating, though.This film's great to watch alone, especially if you've not seen it either before or for a very long time. If you've never experienced Python before, then this is a great appetiser and remember  there are two other films and plenty of TV series' as-well.

From a technical viewpoint, "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" could be called a seriously flawed and impaired film. Filmed on location in the UK with a minimal budget and regular "Python" cast members, I seriously doubt that anyone working on the project at the time had believed it would spark such a cultural phenomenon. And revisiting the movie now, post its release 28 years ago, is magical.First-time viewers may be puzzled by the film's odd opening--in fact, stories of those who thought that they had entered into the wrong screening room come in abundance. But as soon as the voice of the coarse British man is audible the viewer realizes that he or she has been duped once again by the Python Troupe.King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table have been sent on a most glorious quest by God Himself--to seek and maintain the Holy Grail, the legendary cup that Christ drank from during The Last Supper, prior to His execution, and which later caught His blood as he was left danging upon the cross.But the seriousness surrounding the Holy Grail is left wholly untouched by the members of Monty Python--instead, we follow King Arthur and his men as they come upon an odd assortment of characters, including The Black Knight, Dennis, The Knights Who Say "Ni!", and The Killer Rabbit, all of whom hinder the daring soldiers in their quest for the Holy Grail.Many people will find the humor of "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" ingenious, while others will find the exact same jokes and stints repetitive and ridiculous. I myself did not enjoy the film the first time I saw it as a child, but over the years I have come to appreciate its humor a bit more. I still find the jokes a bit too stretched out at times, and certain gags, though hilarious the first ten times, get a bit humorless the twentieth time around (the coconuts, for example, which are amazingly silly when first introduced, soon become tiring when they are treated as the highlight of a joke repetitively). However, often enough the jokes introduced at certain points in the films are merely played in the background further into the film--for example, the fact that the men do not ride on horses is quite a major idea the first time it is revealed, and becomes the central subject of a conversation between Arthur and the man atop the castle battlements. But later on the notion of no horses is played smaller and in the background as so we can concentrate on the current jokes at hand, as well as the missing horses as an added bonus.There is absolutely nothing to truthfully discuss about "Monty Python and the Holy Grail," other than to say that at first it seems quite obnoxious, but it starts to grow on you. And this movie has definitely made a deep dig into our culture. In fact, on the commentary track for the newer DVD, John Cleese mentions that a pro American football player (or "footballer" as the English call them) and his buddy were thinking of a plan in the midst of a serious game. Their strategy was this on the field: Run away! Run away!There are countless classic scenes, including the battle between The Black Knight and King Arthur ("I've had worse!"); the scene where Sir Lancelot the Brave (or Launcelot, as the script for the film names him) storms the Swamp Castle in hopes of rescuing a fair maiden and, in result, ends up destroying everything in his path (including the candle mounted along the wall leading to the spiralling staircase), saying that he gets a bit frantic and over-excited in this genre; Sir Robin and the Three-Headed Knight ("...when danger reared its ugly head he bravely turned his tail and fled..."); The Knights Who Say "Ni!" and their request for a shrubbery; the Killer Rabbit's attack on Arthur's merry men. That's just to name a few memorable scenes."Monty Python and the Holy Grail" may be the silliest film ever put on celluloid. It rarely makes sense, sometimes falls a bit flat, but always puts a smile on your face. And that's an achievement.

Silly boys. Those Monty Python chaps send up the King Arthur legend as only they could. Silliness from beginning to end. But silliness can be brilliant you know. And there is some truly inspired stuff in this movie. It's a farcical parody in which the laughs come fast and furious. You've got a three-headed knight. You've got a knight who just won't quit, no matter how many "flesh wounds" you inflict upon him. You have knights who sing about that silly place known as Camelot. And of course you have knights who say "Ni!" You have snooty, condescending French persons and their flying livestock. You have rabbits, both Trojan and killer. You have a unique use for coconuts and the question of whether coconuts can migrate. All of this surrounding the main plot, the quest for the Holy Grail. Oh who are we kidding, there really is no plot. The movie just careens from one gag to the next.The movie is brilliantly performed by the Pythons, each of whom takes on multiple roles. Graham Chapman, playing King Arthur, is the glue that holds everything together. All the nonsense revolves around him. Chapman is the straight man, if this movie could be said to have such a thing. Everyone else gets to be gleefully silly while Chapman's Arthur is a little more restrained as he focuses on his noble quest. But Chapman is as funny as any of the others. Arthur's Knights of the Round Table meanwhile are a quirky, eclectic bunch and each provides plenty of laughs as they go off in their own directions seeking the Grail. And for as good as they are portraying their respective Knights it is in the other characters they also play that the Pythons perhaps shine brightest. How can you not love John Cleese's Taunting French Guard? Michael Palin is great as the peasant Dennis who bemoans the class system and questions Arthur's legitimacy. Palin also plays the King of Swamp Castle and Terry Jones does great as heir to the swamp Prince Herbert. Among other things Eric Idle is a great dead collector, shrubber and monk. Terry Gilliam has comparatively little screen time but makes his own contributions with his great animation as well as co-directing the whole thing with Jones. No small task pulling all this film's wonderful nonsense together so Gilliam and Jones have to be given a great deal of credit for their directing work. The movie is really let down only by its ending. It's jarring and abrupt, the Pythons pulling the rug out from beneath their audience. It's typical Python though. But this last bit of silliness doesn't really work. For all the great stuff that came before the movie deserved a better conclusion than this. But a misstep right at the end isn't going to detract too much from the overall experience. This movie is funny, brilliant and thoroughly enjoyable from the opening credits all the way to the end. Well near the end anyway. Easy to see why this is one of the most beloved comedies ever. This movie which sends up the great Arthurian legend has become legendary itself.

Monty Python will always be loved or hated depending on your personality. And this is Monty Python at its typical best. If you like daft jokes, killer fluffy animals, bad accents and intelligent discussions that will most likely go over your head the first time round, then you will love The Holy Grail.The jokes vary from obvious visual puns (coconut halves to represent horses) and audio puns ("I am Roger the Shrubber") to more subtle and intelligent jokes ("I thought we were an autonomous collective" / the Witch-burning scene). The greatest thing about the Holy Grail is that there's something for everyone. No one is left out.What many don't realise is the sophisticated intelligence behind the jokes that many of later generations don't understand (back in the Life of Brian - Romani Ite Domun - which wouldn't have such impact on the youngsters who never had to suffer through Latin classes) such as the witch burning scene, where it was true that any means possible was used to warp the natural and legal laws to create the desired result i.e. one less warty woman in the village, and how the mish-mash of Celtic tribes were suddenly forced to become a diplomacy ("Strange women lying in ponds distributing swords is no basis for a system of government. Supreme executive power derives from a mandate from the masses, not from some farcical aquatic ceremony!"). It always reminds me of Blackadder - how so many great jokes were wasted by bad timing or bad judgement on the audience's vocabulary.And for those who can't keep up with historical jokes, there's the Black Knight, Tim, and Zoot to keep you occupied. They sure as hell make me laugh.So if you like daft humour, go for it! But promise to check out the subtle jokes as well. It's worth the effort, and you'll learn a little about history too.

Name another context where the line "your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries" is funny. If it's not John Cleese as the taunting Frenchman or said in that very same obnoxiously fake French accent, it's about as funny as missing tea time."The Holy Grail," far and away the greatest comedic work of the Monty Python gang of Graham Chapman, Eric Idle, John Cleese, Michael Palin and Terry Gilliam is a masterful example of the power of improvisational humor and satire. It is also testament that nonsense, when executed properly, is brilliance.No comedy can even touch what King Arthur and the knights of the round table's divinely charged quest for the Holy Grail does. Whether it is a rant about various forms of government, a tragically flawed scientific logic for burning witches or knights who keep sacred words like "Ni" and demand shrubberies, just about everything in the film is memorable, quotable or at least highly enjoyed by those with bad recall abilities.The Middle Ages is perfect fodder for Monty Python, mixing a definite sense of history with tales of fantasy -- the ideal balance for satire and nonsensical fun. But truly, comedy is about timing and execution and no one does it better. The subtleties of "I'm not dead yet" and "i'm getting better" are examples. Delivered in another way they could miss the mark entirely, but the Python crew gets just about anything to be funny. A definite improvisational element keeps the scenes fresh and all the more hilarious."Holy Grail" nails joke after joke and only lacks a satisfying end. Still, the sheer comedic genius of the rest of the film is so good that the whole unit is meaningless. You don't walk away thinking it's a bad ending, you start quoting the taunting Frenchman, or the leader of the nights who say "Ni!" or the Black Knight. That's what makes the film a true classic.

Well, if you want original humor, meaning something different than what you normally see - this is your ticket. The above statement was true 30 years ago, and still holds. It's just silly, far-out humor.It's not all winners, no comedy is, but there are enough of them, and enough classic bizarre scenes that it's always a hoot to re-visit this film from time to time. The only problem I have with it are the cheap shots in gives - in typical 1970s fashion - of anything Biblical. But, it's not that bad and most of the film is pretty innocent.It's pretty much one ludicrous scene after another. I mean, where else do you see a knight fighting on after his legs are chopped off, then his arms?!! Or a killer rabbit? It was almost like watching a Marx Brothers film 40 years later with '70s irreverence.Don't let the PG rating fool you. This would be an easy PG-13 today with all the blood, some cursing and the violence. I know some young kids, however - nice kids, too - who love this film as much as adults, so it can't be too offensive. If I had to describe this movie in one word it would be "lunacy."

This is how to make a comedy. Laughs can be found throughout, and the 4th wall falls apart throughout the film without any actors chewing the scenery. The movie from the first scene, and on is great. The acting is wonderful. Everybody in the cast delivers the jokes hilariously. Also the the actors never seem to overact at all. There are a few jokes that go on for to long, but it is aware of this. If only another comedy that doesn't deserve to have its name mentioned (cough Disaster Movie cough) was self-aware that the jokes it had were to long. It really is a shame that British people can say that they have awesome comedies like this, and we have a lot of awful comedies like (sigh) Disaster Movie. This film is a work of genius.4 stars out of 4

This has got to be one of the side-splittingly funniest films of all time.No one can deliver such cerebral humor as the pythonians,and this is truly their finest hour(OK,so its about an hour and a half).This film doesn't even wait for the show to begin to start you laughing,it goes for the throat during the opening credits(sorry I don't want to ruin it for you).It made me laugh till my tears were crying.If you are a single chap, and you want to know if a certain girl is right for you,then try this.Bring her to your home,cook her a wonderful meal,complete with a great bottle of wine,then plop her down in front of the telly and start this video(or DVD,whatever).If she is not laughing hysterically within ten minutes,then turn off the box,and break up with her immediately,as she has an impaired humor center in her brain(and will only cause you tremendous misery in the coming years).I only wish I had known of the "python Challenge" during my dating days.It would have saved me years of unremitting heartache(as well as thousands in legal fees). Please trust me on this one,it might just save your life.I give this movie an unrepentant 10,but would give it a 20+ if it were an option.

After the brilliant Life of Brian, I was looking forward to watching Monty Python and the Holy Grail. And I loved it, I don't think it is quite as good as Life of Brian, but it is definitely one of the better Monty Python comedies for sheer hilarity and fun. The story like Life of Brian isn't the strongest component but this is in no way a criticism and yes the special effects are cheesy but perhaps that was the intention. My only problem with the film was that the ending is a little flat, but that is a minor criticism compared to how much I loved this film. The script is irreverent and highly quotable, and the soundtrack is even funnier. As a comedy it is wonderfully inventive, that debunks the Dark Ages and legends of chivalry through King Arthur, The Black Knight, God and the "knights who say ni". Comedy highlights include the trial with Connie Booth's witch and the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch sequence. Even the sets are quite well designed and authentic. And the acting is simply wonderful, John Cleese, Terry Jones(the encounter with Dennis's mother was hilarious), Graham Chapman, Terry Gilliam, Michael Palin and Eric Idle perfectly live up to their exceptional talents. Overall, a great comedy and a great film. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox

I rewatched this movie for the first time in almost 10 years to see if it still held up. Did it? Kind of. The first 20-30 minutes are great, the last 20 minutes are great, but the middle really drags.Everything from the beginning of the film to the point where the knights split up is superb. The false opening, the second false opening, coconuts, swallows, "tis but a scratch", monster hand turning the book pages, the Trojan bunny, that stuff was great. Once the knights split up, the movie screeches to a dead halt for 40 minutes. The scenes were basically unrelated skits that meandered about to pad the running time to theatrical length. This wouldn't be so bad if these scenes were at least funny, but they weren't. I didn't laugh or even chuckle once through this whole stretch. Sir Robin, Galahad, Lancelot, none of it did it for me. The Knights Who Say Ni was the only somewhat humorous thing, mostly because of how stupid it was. Once they reunite, things start picking up again. The killer bunny, The Man From Scene 24 at the bridge, intermission, getting arrested, all classic stuff. Had the middle section been heavily trimmed, this could have been fantastic, but that middle section really bogged the movie down to just "very good" for me. Apart from the humor, I'll say the film looks good given its small budget, and the foggy locations give it some nice atmosphere. Comedy can be very subjective, so how much you enjoy this film is dependent on your sense of humor. If you're not a fan of British humor, you're going to hate it, but if the first half hour grabs you, you'll probably enjoy it.

Hilarious and a movie to last through the ages! This was one I came to late, I was in my 20s before I watched this film for the first time, but boy do I wish I had seen it earlier in life. The comedy in the film is perfect for me, and every line is delivered with the perfect amount of sarcasm and wit. To some this may seem too stupid or silly, but I think it's borderline brilliant. The film has way too many jokes and gags to choose a favorite but to me some of the best are the black night at the bridge, the French, and of course the "huge tracks of land" quotes 🤣🤣🤣 I don't want to really give much detail about what the this movie is about because it's just an experience you have to enjoy for yourself.

Monty Python was to comedy what the Beatles were to popular music....and not just because they too were British and had a member named John. Brilliant, absurdist, and audacious, the Oxford and Cambridge educated Pythons revolutionized television humor by bringing an intellectual edge to their uniquely satirical brand of comedy. Prior to the 1969 debut of Monty Python's Flying Circus, the public's idea of sketch comedy was Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In and the Carol Burnett Show. Some of Carol's skit ~especially Tim Conway's dentist~ hold up beautifully today, but Laugh-In is strictly a product of its era.What made Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Eric Idle, Michael Palin, and the two Terrys (Jones and Gilliam) so groundbreaking was their take-no-prisoners approach. Bearing a style light-years removed from vaudeville, sacred cows were fair game for the Pythons as they fearlessly took on religion, sex, and other hallowed institutions....and made us absolutely howl with laughter!! Who can forget their classic argument skit? Or the funniest (and deadliest) joke in the world? Or the Ministry of Silly Walks?Unlike the Fab Four, the Pythons' exposure to American audiences was not the result of a single appearance on the Ed Sullivan Show. It was a gradual experiment that began in, of all places, Texas....by which time the Flying Circus had ceased production. In 1971 the Pythons had released a feature film called AND NOW FOR SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIFFERENT, but in actuality it was a compendium of their zaniest sketches, which also included the Olympic hide and go seek event, the Blackmail game show, and, let us not forget, the upper class twit of the year.By 1975, the troupe had gained sufficient popularity to embark on their first bona-fide movie made strictly for the silver screen: MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL. Like on the Beatles' A HARD DAY'S NIGHT, this Fab Six didn't have a big budget to play around with, but they sure managed to make do with less! With Chapman playing the lead role of King Arthur, the others basked in playing so many multiple characters they would have made chameleons like Alec Guinness and Peter Sellers envious. The HOLY GRAIL script called for at least five castles, but there was only enough room in their funds for just one. That problem was rectified by simply filming the garrison available to them by using different camera angles. However, my favorite behind-the-scenes anecdote involves horses; because they couldn't afford any, the "riders" merely skipped along onfoot and emulated the clippety-clop sound of equine hooves by banging two coconuts together. 🤣Satirizing Arthurian legend, the movie takes place in 932 England ~pre Norman conquest~ where Arthur, King of the Britons, and his servant Patsy "gallop" the moorish countryside. The Pythons waste no time getting to the side-splitting hilarity as Arthur stops at castle #1 and asks the gatekeeper up above if anyone there wishes to join him in his court of Camelot. What begins as a recruiting inquiry escalates into a fluctuating discussion about coconuts within a temperate zone and the migratory patterns of unladen swallows, whether they be European or African.Moving on, Arthur, approaching castle #2, inquires about its occupancy to a peasant named Dennis(!), where it soon devolves into a very funny discourse ~with Marxist overtones~ over "outdated imperialist dogma" nine centuries before Communist Manifesto was even published. Okay....so no knights of Camelot are to be enlisted here!! The most fondly remembered scene in the movie quickly ensues as Arthur reluctantly engages in a sword fight with the Black Knight ("Tis but a scratch).In time King Arthur assembles his court of Camelot (a silly place!), starting with Sir Belvedere, followed by Sir Galahad, Sir Lancelot, Sir Robin, and assorted squires and minstrels. Oh.... I forgot to mention Sir Not-Appearing-In-This-Film.😄 One day God himself appears from the heavens and orders Arthur to find the Holy Grail. Castle #3 beckons as Arthur unsuccessfully attempts to barter with its French occupants ~more than a century before the Norman conquest.Realizing that they may have a better chance of locating the Grail separately Arthur and his fellowship ~I mean, his knights~ temporarily split up in the hopes of regrouping at a later date. The not-so-brave Robin has the least success, showing his true colors by chickening out of confrontations. Meanwhile, an exhausted Galahad collapses at the doorstep of castle #4, drawn there by the grail shaped beacon lit high above. He is tended to by more than two dozen virginal young women who haven't seen a man in ages and are desperately wanting to be deflowered. Sadly, Galahad is "saved" by Lancelot, who drags him away from the peril despite repeated pleas from Galahad to let him stay behind and "face the peril".🤣As for Lancelot, he has his own (mis)adventure when, assuming he's rescuing a fair lass being forced to marry against her will, storms into the grounds of castle #5 and slaughters more than half of the wedding guests. It turns out the lass in question is actually the effeminate son of a wealthy landowner using the marriage as an opportunity to acquire more land. Meantime, in Scene 24 ~a "smashing scene with some lovely acting"~ Arthur and Belvedere receive cryptic clues about the Grail's location from a mysterious old man, and soon come face to face with the dreaded Knights Who Say Ni.Directed by the two Terrys, MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL is an unconventionally disjointed comedy that goes off in all sorts of loopy directions. But this is not a critique because that was exactly how the Flying Circus was constructed, with Terry Gilliam's delightfully crude animation linking everything together. The movie's opening credits alone are a blueprint for the silliness to come, with fake Swedish subtitles and endless references to moose. (ie. Miss Taylor's moose by....)😂 Even Richard Nixon gets a nod.Neil Innes, the unofficial "seventh Python", proves himself invaluable to them in the music department. A musical satirist, Innes joined the Flying Circus for their final season and contributed to their comedy albums. On THE HOLY GRAIL, in addition to appearing on-screen as one of Robin's minstrels, Innes delivers a pretty good score, one that's compatible with a medieval motion picture, not to mention a pair of interesting parody songs about the knights of the Round Table and the (not so) brave, brave Sir Robin.Special kudos must also be reserved to the Pythons for their remarkably accurate visual interpretation of the Middle Ages. Many past movies set in feudalism England always portrayed it with a certain pageantry featuring the type of costumes and set designs that usually received Oscar nominations. The well read Pythons countered that myth by showing the mud, blood, and complete lack of glamor. The seemingly never-ending cold Scottish precipitation made filming physically uncomfortable, but, in the end, it contributed enormously to THE HOLY GRAIL's medieval composition.Released to mixed reviews in 1975, the ensuing decades have been very kind to MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL, where it is now justifiably regarded as one of the funniest movies ever made, as surely as the Flying Circus was to television. The Pythons proved to be highly influential on every subsequent laughfest in its wacky wake. Let's face it; without them, there would have been no Saturday Night Live, no South Park, and no Simpsons. When it came to defining comedy, Monty Python's gift seemed almost sent from heaven. 🔚

The first 20 minutes are comedy gold, with typical Python intelligence, which means smarts combined with pure silliness in surgical precision, elevating the whole.After that, the movie has 60 minutes of ups and downs, not always overcoming the lack of budget, sometimes overusing the "breaking the fourth wall" joke, or just focusing in a less funny joke just a bit too long.Still, overall, it's impossible to say the quality isn't good, because for every bad segment, with get an opposite amazing one. Big step forward from the 1971 film.

I loved the movie and I'm not going to go into any detail about the movie itself.  Some people though are knocking the ending, but again still praising the rest of the movie, and I'd like to just say that the ending is just fine the way it is.  Yes, they had planned to have some big storming the castle ending to the film which may or may not have been hilarious; but, they ran out of money on the film (look at the use of coconuts, a real budget would have meant real horses).  The ending that all this is really just a fantasy (so to speak) about a fantasy saga actually is quite funny. Is does end abruptly, but even that is fine in the context of a wacky movie. Just enjoy it and don't harp on the fact that the ending doesn't fit the rest of the movie, it does if you let it.

Monty Python (or John Cleese, Michael Palin, Terry Jones, Terry Gilliam, Graham Chapman and Eric Idle) brought their brilliant wit and smart humour to theatrical audiences back in 1975 with this nice little gem. If you have never seen Monty Python before it will either change your life and how you look at comedy or you will scratch your head and wonder what is so funny.In this farcical story King Arthur (to me a brilliant performance and played extremely straight by Graham Chapman) armed with his Knights of the Round Table is on his search for the Holy Grail.They come face to face with deadly black knights, killer rabbits and lonely lustful nuns to name a few.There really isn't a low point in the film as the laughs keep coming and ridiculous characters keep showing up. My favourite scenes are King Arthur's sword fight with the black knight (John Cleese), meeting the Knights Who Say Ni! lead by Michael Palin and dealing with the bridgekeeper (Terry Gilliam) of the Bridge of Death.While this is a film from Python about one thing that being King Arthur's quest for the Holy Grail it still to me has the soul of sketch comedy due to silly characters that show up for generally one scene and then you move onto the next character. Which to me is completely fine. I think this group may have been the absolute best at sketch comedy.Last night my fiancee, my sister, my niece and I went and saw this at a theatre, but it was very interactive. They gave you two halves of coconuts and lines to shout out to the screen. If you are a fan of Monty Python or this film it is not just highly recommended it is a must for those people.

In the Realm of King Arthur, the Monty Python team set out on a quest to recruit the best Knights in the kingdom and find the Holy Grail.This is Classic Python Mayhem, where we encounter Killer rabbits, Knights who go Nee! and Horny Nuns who lure the unsuspecting in with there Grail Shaped Beacon.The Cast all give Typically Hilarious Performances, bringing another must see to the Python Loving Audience.If You Like Monty Python, you'll love it, if you don't then stay away.If you've never seen Monty Python before then give it a try, yes it's dated but its still great fun.9/10Also see, The Life Of Brian and The Meaning of Life

"Monty Python and the Holy Grail" (1975) is a genius piece of British comedy. If you want to get as much out of it as possible, there are a few things you need to keep in mind before watching:This movie is absolute nuts. First some cautions, though - there is some gore and blood (although so over-the-top is comedic), a few scenes which might be classified as religiously offensive, and a longer scene which is highly sexually suggestive. All these things can be uncomfortable for people that are sensitive to the respective categories and should in that case be taken into account.As for the rest of the movie, it is insane. Humor is usually created when there is a plot-twist that deviates from one's expectations, and in that sense, this movie is nothing but humor. Its sole purpose is to make sure the viewer never stands steady and comfortable in what to expect, and that this the only expectation one can have. If quirky yet brilliant and genius humor like this is appreciated, Monty Python and the Holy Grail is an absolute feast, and make sure to watch the Special Editions that features the short "Dentist On the Job."My personal grade: a hilarious 8/10. If you found this helpful, check my profile for more reviews.

Well, this is unquestionably one of the funniest movies ever made. The first time a saw it I laughed to tears and this is the only time that counts. The first time you get the best experience. I really envy those who haven't seen it yet. From the opening scene to the sudden ending this one won't let you leave the room. Especially the opening scene: "Are you trying to say that coconuts migrate" or when John Cleese trying to be Tarzan, hanging on the rope said: "Can somebody give me a push." An absolute masterpiece.
Considering the low budget that the creators of the movie had at their disposal would probably make "The Holy Grail" the best movie in this genre-silly nonsense kind of stuff. It shows the great creativity and acting capabilities of the Monty Python crew. It comes to say that a movie can be made with a little bit of money - a great movie. 10 out of 10

I do know, however, that Monty Python and the Holy Grail is one of the funniest movies ever made. Let's face it, if the Python hadn't showed up in 1969, someone would have created them by now, or the world would be a much sadder place. Alongside Life of Brian, which is the sextet's masterpiece, Holy Grail is an excellent start if you want to get addicted to their surreal humor.As suggested in the title, the film deals with the Arthurian stories, freely reinterpreted by the Python ensemble: after recruiting his knights, including Sir Lancelot (John Cleese), Sir Robin (Eric Idle), Sir Bedevere (Terry Jones) and Sir Galahad (Michael Palin), King Arthur (Graham Chapman) embarks on a mission from God (also Chapman, voice only though): to seek and find the Holy Grail. No need to say, the journey is going to be perilous, but also hilarious, our heroes doing their "best" to screw everything up.As in Life of Brian, there are so many good bits choosing just one or two feels reductive and disrespectful, given the material. It's pure comedy gold from start to finish, a non-stop gag marathon: from the mock Scandinavian subtitles in the opening credits to the argument about swallows, from the Killer Rabbit to the Black Knight and the jaw-dropping epilogue, you will keep grinning like never before (if you're unfamiliar with these comedians, that is). Actually, after some serious thinking I can select two particular sequences as particularly memorable: the Knights who say "Ni!" and the Bridge of Death. The rest of the film is ace too, but those two scenes are the ones I can't stop thinking of fondly whenever the movie is mentioned.Oh, and let's not forget Terry Gilliam's vital contribution: he doesn't appear that much as an actor (his Bridgekeeper is absolute genius, though), but he compensates that with the remarkable animations used to depict part of this epic adventure. Speaking of epic, this picture has one of the most brilliant tag-lines in comedy history, if not film history in general.Oh yes, the world wouldn't be quite the same without the Monty Python. Even the most miserable person on the planet will laugh like a lunatic after viewing any of their films.P.S. Ni!

King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table set out on a quest to find the Holy Grail...as told to do so by a cartoon God that lives in the clouds... Easily the most hilarious and original comedy ever made, Monty Python and the Holy Grail claims it's undisputed throne through insanely ridiculous situations and characters that will very likely never be duplicated. Pure comedic genius that doesn't go stale with age or decades of competition having been released. Simply seeing the way comedy films are made today, this film will very likely have a long reign before anything can even hold a candle to it. An absolute belly-laugh fest that never lets up.Only the cast of Monty Python could have pulled this film off, with each actor playing many different characters...all hilarious! The genius in the actors' lines themselves are truly to be admired. The comedic style of talking in circles is one technique that most comedies do not try to do, simply because they can't compete with the genius of this film, which uses it flawlessly. Those that do try usually fall flat on their faces. Two particularly excellent examples of this can be seen in the beginning scene, in which the characters discuss the origins of coconuts.....and the other when Lancelot breaks into the swamp castle to save the "damsel in distress." This is merely one technique that the cast has perfected to conjure up laughs consistently throughout the entire film. The only way that I can imagine that someone might not like this film is if they simply do not enjoy it's type of humor. Too bad for them.Another hilarious technique used in the film is the use of comedy in the background. From people slamming cats against poles for no apparent reason, to people filling up baskets with mud in the fields....all very strange and hilarious at the same time. It's also simply amazing that all of the characters are played by the same group of actors, which shows the great range all of them have. Some are simply unrecognizable from one character to the other and it sometimes takes a good eye to pick them out, which makes it fun. And I don't want to ruin it for anyone, but this film takes some turns that no sane person could see coming.Ridiculous characters in ridiculous situations equals ridiculous laughter.The epitome of all-star comedy that will no doubt continue to stand the test of time. Kudos to Gilliam and the rest of the Python crew. If you haven't seen it yet, make it your first priority in life!

The first time I saw this was on CBS at 11:30 on a Friday night. I had seen a few Monty Python shows on PBS, so I knew who they were, and I was very interested in seeing this.This film shows you just what all around comedy is all about.It starts during the opening credits and ends in a way you don't see coming. The songs are....memorable. The drawings/animation are imaginative for its time and the Monty Python troupe was at its shining best playing a host of characters from the days of King Arthur. If you don't laugh at this today, you have no funny bone! Many other reviewers here hit this film on the nose, there isn't much more to add to how brilliant this piece of work it.This is one of my all time favorites and is one of the top 10 films of all time.

This is such a great film that a professor of mine actually used it in a Medieval Civilization class as extra credit. This was not because the movie was so historically accurate, but because the movie was so much funnier when we applied what we learned in her class to it! It was really hard to pick only 10 funny lines!To anyone that watched it once and didn't quite get it or got frustrated the first time, here is a tip: Catch it on DVD with the subtitles or closed-captioning on. That way you will be sure to catch all of the French insults and the other one-liners that fly by so fast! I don't recommend doing that with kids in the room - my 7-year-old picked up a couple of words on the screen that he had missed previously...Enjoy!

To review "Monty Python & the Holy Grail", there are five schools, I mean three : 1--- The Ecstatic Review : One of the greatest laugh riots ever committed on the big screen, an epic quest of absurdity like only the glorious Monty Python could have lead.2--- The Not-so-ecstatic-but-no-less-enthusiastic Review : Damn, I wish the movie was longer, couldn't they get more budget, it's such a shame. Oh, well, I had a great time, and only for the opening credits, the movie deserves its reputation.1--- The Ecstatic Review (again): You don't get it, Harold, that's exactly the point, it's a low-budget film, and its apparently low quality contributed to the high popularity of the film. Man, it's called a parody.2--- The Not-so-ecstatic-but-no-less-enthusiastic Review : I know, what a parody is, Bernard, thank you. But my point was that the movie could have been so much better if only  *** WE APOLOGIZE FOR THE FAULT IN THE REVIEW. HAROLD AND BERNARD HAVE BEEN SACKED *** 3--- The Not-ecstatic-not-really-enthusiastic-in-fact-quite-negative Review : This movie is so flawed I don't even know where to start, hell, they didn't even have horses and  Aaaaarggggh! *** WE APOLOGIZE AGAIN, FOR THE NEGATIVITY EXPRESSED IN THAT REVIEW. THE AUTHOR HAS BEEN S WELL, SHALL WE SAY, HE MET WITH AN UNFORTUNATE ACCIDENT *** As I was saying, to review "Monty Python & the Holy Grail", there are three, I mean two schools of review that actually can both be fused into one unique review, MINE, so let me be the bard to sing the praises of this epic tale of hilarity through : I--- The Self-Hedonistic-Introspectively-Tautological Review : The comic genius of the film is so surrealistic it goes beyond any reasonable attempt to measure, judge and therefore give it a proper review. It would be like answering the eternal question : "What's the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow?" I think one should consider the wisdom of Sir Bevedere who said that "The Earth is banana shaped", an interestingly fruity allusion which is not without reminding Newton's apple that would revolutionize the law of Physics and originate one of the most important principles governing the film, the one I call  1/ The 'Tarte Tatin' principle :This culinary example might satisfy the descendants of the French "Ka-niggets", the tart was basically invented when a woman who burnt her apple pie rescued it by putting the pastry on the apples and turning out the upside down tart. The result became a famous and delicious dessert. "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" works the same way, it's botched, disjointed, irreverent, turning into derision every cinematic mechanism of the epic genre, but the result is just one of the funniest laugh-out-loud comedies and one of the perfect examples of the level of sophistication and unlimitedness that absurdity can reach, the one I call 2/ The 'Red Nose' principle : "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is a succession of incoherent episodic sketches governed by strong coherence in absurd style and surrealistic comedy, and vice versa. The film is the celebration of the boundlessness of comedy. Here's a mathematical demonstration that would have made Sir Bevedere proud : let's admit, by hypothesis, that there was one limit "NI" that comedy could never exceed. Now, what is the definition of comedy? According to the Oxford dictionary, it's a "professional entertainment consisting of jokes and sketches, intended to make an audience laugh". Now, if "NI" existed, that would mean that there would be no comedic purposes in anything above that "Nl" level, which indirectly means that there's absolutely no one who would ever laugh to any subject implying the use of comedy above the "Nu"  sorry the "NI" level, in other words, anything above the "Nl" level could be admitted as 100% serious. But consider that total seriousness is so psychologically oppressive that it inevitably implies the use of a comical element to relieve the tension. And the use of a comic relief is even more necessary in a totally serious narrative. So, from a reductio-ad-absurdum, I've demonstrated that even in the existence of a limit above which we can't laugh, we realize that not only we can, but we should. Quod Erat Demonstratum. Whatever seriousness you build, whatever order you create, it's meant to collapse. That's the principle, the one I call  3/ The 'Castle of Cards' principle :The castle of cards has only one goal in its short existence, to collapse. It's the perfect demonstration of the ephemeral essence of any organized and perfectly structured entity. And the higher it gets, the closer is the cataclysm. What's that to mean? "Monty Python & the Holy Grail" highlights the eternal victory of anarchy over order, and how even anarchy can be appealing. It's a perfect assemblage of chaotic situations, that gets your mind acclimated to the so universal and true unpredictability of life. Nothing can surprise you, yet everything is absolutely surprising : a three-headed knight, a black knight who continues the fight even if he's totally chopped off, a witch with a fake noise, a castle full of virgins with nymphomaniac impulses, a harmless bunny that can decapitate you in one second, and one of the worst cases of cinematic party pooping ever. Everything is built up until it dramatically ends in one of the most brilliantly abrupt endings, demonstrating the inevitable destruction of every measurable structure. World was created from chaos and it will end up in chaos in such a pointlessness that absurdity is the only language that could define it. Also ...*** ANY ATTEMPT TO TAKE THIS REVIEW SERIOUSLY WILL BE PUNISHED BY MOOSE TRAMPLING, ACCORDING TO THE SEVERE BUT FAIR LAW OF SVENSONLUNDERJUNGERGUNDESON***

Whether you love it or hate it, Monty Python is forever etched into British comedy history and this edition of the filmic Python exploits has stood the test of time, just.The thing with Monty Python is that it's very random. The bizarreness and variedness of the humour is really something to behold and there are numerous examples in this film alone which backs this up. Whether it's a completely random and insane discussion-come-argument about swallows to a really scathing, surreal attack on how the English dealt with the 'black death' or the 'plague' or whatever killer virus' were going around back then, in the carefree manner that is shown. It can be a joy to behold.With this film, we are instantly thrown into a world of confusion as the 'projectionist' actually loads up the wrong film to begin with. From here, you know something's up as no other film that I've ever seen or heard of has a beginning like this and you know that this is going to be different. Once the real film has started, the dialogue in the early scenes superbly juxtaposes the setting in 900 odd B.C. as political arguments and, as I've mentioned, discussions about migratory birds pop up. It feels like an extra long episode of a comic, sketch TV programme which has no real plot, but is just a montage of jokes and hilarious situations the characters find themselves in and this isn't a bad thing. The great thing about this is, is that the early situations and exchanges work as a flame for us, the moths, and it sets the stage very well; drawing us into the world of humour on show. Since no one around now knows exactly what happened in the time of the films setting, no one can argue whether any of this would really happen. Were minstrels who followed people/knights around that annoying? What did knights guarding the turrets of castles actually do/talk about to pass the time? Swallows maybe? Effective little scenarios like this make you wonder and it just adds to the genius of the writing.One of the early scenes has to be one of the funniest in films entire one hundred year plus history. This is the fight scene between Arthur and the black knight. Following on from a good fight scene, the black knight delivers some of the funniest lines in the most funniest of ways following his own decapitation. The line: 'All right, we'll call it a draw.' has me in stitches just thinking about it.One quarrel I have with the film is the animated sequences. Now, they look terribly dated and really aren't that funny. Fortunately, they only last a few seconds (most of them) and don't distract you too much but why even bother to have them in the first place? The titles in-between the knight's own separate stories are fine but little things like the 'artist suddenly having a heart attack' just insult the viewer. Not good, unfortunately.I think most people would have a problem with the characters who talk to the screen, breaking the 'fourth wall', something which was stamped out of narrative film-making decades ago. I had a minor frustration with this as although it only happened twice from memory, it spoilt what was a perfectly good/funny scene. The incident in the castle full of young girls is the one which immediately springs to mind as she starts talking to the audience. In an analytical sense, this is actually supposed to add to the experience in the sense that it's all theatre anyway and this film shouldn't be taken seriously. It's fun and farcical and that's all that matters. I didn't let it get away with it when it came to the rating, though.This film's great to watch alone, especially if you've not seen it either before or for a very long time. If you've never experienced Python before, then this is a great appetiser and remember  there are two other films and plenty of TV series' as-well.

From a technical viewpoint, "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" could be called a seriously flawed and impaired film. Filmed on location in the UK with a minimal budget and regular "Python" cast members, I seriously doubt that anyone working on the project at the time had believed it would spark such a cultural phenomenon. And revisiting the movie now, post its release 28 years ago, is magical.First-time viewers may be puzzled by the film's odd opening--in fact, stories of those who thought that they had entered into the wrong screening room come in abundance. But as soon as the voice of the coarse British man is audible the viewer realizes that he or she has been duped once again by the Python Troupe.King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table have been sent on a most glorious quest by God Himself--to seek and maintain the Holy Grail, the legendary cup that Christ drank from during The Last Supper, prior to His execution, and which later caught His blood as he was left danging upon the cross.But the seriousness surrounding the Holy Grail is left wholly untouched by the members of Monty Python--instead, we follow King Arthur and his men as they come upon an odd assortment of characters, including The Black Knight, Dennis, The Knights Who Say "Ni!", and The Killer Rabbit, all of whom hinder the daring soldiers in their quest for the Holy Grail.Many people will find the humor of "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" ingenious, while others will find the exact same jokes and stints repetitive and ridiculous. I myself did not enjoy the film the first time I saw it as a child, but over the years I have come to appreciate its humor a bit more. I still find the jokes a bit too stretched out at times, and certain gags, though hilarious the first ten times, get a bit humorless the twentieth time around (the coconuts, for example, which are amazingly silly when first introduced, soon become tiring when they are treated as the highlight of a joke repetitively). However, often enough the jokes introduced at certain points in the films are merely played in the background further into the film--for example, the fact that the men do not ride on horses is quite a major idea the first time it is revealed, and becomes the central subject of a conversation between Arthur and the man atop the castle battlements. But later on the notion of no horses is played smaller and in the background as so we can concentrate on the current jokes at hand, as well as the missing horses as an added bonus.There is absolutely nothing to truthfully discuss about "Monty Python and the Holy Grail," other than to say that at first it seems quite obnoxious, but it starts to grow on you. And this movie has definitely made a deep dig into our culture. In fact, on the commentary track for the newer DVD, John Cleese mentions that a pro American football player (or "footballer" as the English call them) and his buddy were thinking of a plan in the midst of a serious game. Their strategy was this on the field: Run away! Run away!There are countless classic scenes, including the battle between The Black Knight and King Arthur ("I've had worse!"); the scene where Sir Lancelot the Brave (or Launcelot, as the script for the film names him) storms the Swamp Castle in hopes of rescuing a fair maiden and, in result, ends up destroying everything in his path (including the candle mounted along the wall leading to the spiralling staircase), saying that he gets a bit frantic and over-excited in this genre; Sir Robin and the Three-Headed Knight ("...when danger reared its ugly head he bravely turned his tail and fled..."); The Knights Who Say "Ni!" and their request for a shrubbery; the Killer Rabbit's attack on Arthur's merry men. That's just to name a few memorable scenes."Monty Python and the Holy Grail" may be the silliest film ever put on celluloid. It rarely makes sense, sometimes falls a bit flat, but always puts a smile on your face. And that's an achievement.

Silly boys. Those Monty Python chaps send up the King Arthur legend as only they could. Silliness from beginning to end. But silliness can be brilliant you know. And there is some truly inspired stuff in this movie. It's a farcical parody in which the laughs come fast and furious. You've got a three-headed knight. You've got a knight who just won't quit, no matter how many "flesh wounds" you inflict upon him. You have knights who sing about that silly place known as Camelot. And of course you have knights who say "Ni!" You have snooty, condescending French persons and their flying livestock. You have rabbits, both Trojan and killer. You have a unique use for coconuts and the question of whether coconuts can migrate. All of this surrounding the main plot, the quest for the Holy Grail. Oh who are we kidding, there really is no plot. The movie just careens from one gag to the next.The movie is brilliantly performed by the Pythons, each of whom takes on multiple roles. Graham Chapman, playing King Arthur, is the glue that holds everything together. All the nonsense revolves around him. Chapman is the straight man, if this movie could be said to have such a thing. Everyone else gets to be gleefully silly while Chapman's Arthur is a little more restrained as he focuses on his noble quest. But Chapman is as funny as any of the others. Arthur's Knights of the Round Table meanwhile are a quirky, eclectic bunch and each provides plenty of laughs as they go off in their own directions seeking the Grail. And for as good as they are portraying their respective Knights it is in the other characters they also play that the Pythons perhaps shine brightest. How can you not love John Cleese's Taunting French Guard? Michael Palin is great as the peasant Dennis who bemoans the class system and questions Arthur's legitimacy. Palin also plays the King of Swamp Castle and Terry Jones does great as heir to the swamp Prince Herbert. Among other things Eric Idle is a great dead collector, shrubber and monk. Terry Gilliam has comparatively little screen time but makes his own contributions with his great animation as well as co-directing the whole thing with Jones. No small task pulling all this film's wonderful nonsense together so Gilliam and Jones have to be given a great deal of credit for their directing work. The movie is really let down only by its ending. It's jarring and abrupt, the Pythons pulling the rug out from beneath their audience. It's typical Python though. But this last bit of silliness doesn't really work. For all the great stuff that came before the movie deserved a better conclusion than this. But a misstep right at the end isn't going to detract too much from the overall experience. This movie is funny, brilliant and thoroughly enjoyable from the opening credits all the way to the end. Well near the end anyway. Easy to see why this is one of the most beloved comedies ever. This movie which sends up the great Arthurian legend has become legendary itself.

All my life I've heard how funny Monty Python and the Holy Grail was but I had never seen it. Being in college, a group of my friends all wanted to watch it so I decided to join, excited to finally see this movie for which I've heard so much praise. I could see how people find the movie funny but I could not get into it. I kept wanting to leave but was determined to see it through to its end... and actually, I'm glad I did because the ending "credits" where it's several minutes of music playing to a black screen was the only thing that made me laugh from the movie. I respect the movie because it so widely loved so I'm not trying to bash it, yet I definitely think, as with any sort of humor, it is not for everyone. There are countless types of humor: dry, sarcastic, physical, nonsense, political etc. and everyone has their own taste as to which they prefer. With a movie like Monty Python, which has a very certain type of humor attached to it, there are bound to be those who dislike it. I only leave this comment to let those of you who have not yet seen the movie hear a "different" sort of opinion, as nearly all of the comments here highly praise the movie.

Monty Python will always be loved or hated depending on your personality. And this is Monty Python at its typical best. If you like daft jokes, killer fluffy animals, bad accents and intelligent discussions that will most likely go over your head the first time round, then you will love The Holy Grail.The jokes vary from obvious visual puns (coconut halves to represent horses) and audio puns ("I am Roger the Shrubber") to more subtle and intelligent jokes ("I thought we were an autonomous collective" / the Witch-burning scene). The greatest thing about the Holy Grail is that there's something for everyone. No one is left out.What many don't realise is the sophisticated intelligence behind the jokes that many of later generations don't understand (back in the Life of Brian - Romani Ite Domun - which wouldn't have such impact on the youngsters who never had to suffer through Latin classes) such as the witch burning scene, where it was true that any means possible was used to warp the natural and legal laws to create the desired result i.e. one less warty woman in the village, and how the mish-mash of Celtic tribes were suddenly forced to become a diplomacy ("Strange women lying in ponds distributing swords is no basis for a system of government. Supreme executive power derives from a mandate from the masses, not from some farcical aquatic ceremony!"). It always reminds me of Blackadder - how so many great jokes were wasted by bad timing or bad judgement on the audience's vocabulary.And for those who can't keep up with historical jokes, there's the Black Knight, Tim, and Zoot to keep you occupied. They sure as hell make me laugh.So if you like daft humour, go for it! But promise to check out the subtle jokes as well. It's worth the effort, and you'll learn a little about history too.

Name another context where the line "your mother was a hamster and your father smelt of elderberries" is funny. If it's not John Cleese as the taunting Frenchman or said in that very same obnoxiously fake French accent, it's about as funny as missing tea time."The Holy Grail," far and away the greatest comedic work of the Monty Python gang of Graham Chapman, Eric Idle, John Cleese, Michael Palin and Terry Gilliam is a masterful example of the power of improvisational humor and satire. It is also testament that nonsense, when executed properly, is brilliance.No comedy can even touch what King Arthur and the knights of the round table's divinely charged quest for the Holy Grail does. Whether it is a rant about various forms of government, a tragically flawed scientific logic for burning witches or knights who keep sacred words like "Ni" and demand shrubberies, just about everything in the film is memorable, quotable or at least highly enjoyed by those with bad recall abilities.The Middle Ages is perfect fodder for Monty Python, mixing a definite sense of history with tales of fantasy -- the ideal balance for satire and nonsensical fun. But truly, comedy is about timing and execution and no one does it better. The subtleties of "I'm not dead yet" and "i'm getting better" are examples. Delivered in another way they could miss the mark entirely, but the Python crew gets just about anything to be funny. A definite improvisational element keeps the scenes fresh and all the more hilarious."Holy Grail" nails joke after joke and only lacks a satisfying end. Still, the sheer comedic genius of the rest of the film is so good that the whole unit is meaningless. You don't walk away thinking it's a bad ending, you start quoting the taunting Frenchman, or the leader of the nights who say "Ni!" or the Black Knight. That's what makes the film a true classic.

Well, if you want original humor, meaning something different than what you normally see - this is your ticket. The above statement was true 30 years ago, and still holds. It's just silly, far-out humor.It's not all winners, no comedy is, but there are enough of them, and enough classic bizarre scenes that it's always a hoot to re-visit this film from time to time. The only problem I have with it are the cheap shots in gives - in typical 1970s fashion - of anything Biblical. But, it's not that bad and most of the film is pretty innocent.It's pretty much one ludicrous scene after another. I mean, where else do you see a knight fighting on after his legs are chopped off, then his arms?!! Or a killer rabbit? It was almost like watching a Marx Brothers film 40 years later with '70s irreverence.Don't let the PG rating fool you. This would be an easy PG-13 today with all the blood, some cursing and the violence. I know some young kids, however - nice kids, too - who love this film as much as adults, so it can't be too offensive. If I had to describe this movie in one word it would be "lunacy."

This is how to make a comedy. Laughs can be found throughout, and the 4th wall falls apart throughout the film without any actors chewing the scenery. The movie from the first scene, and on is great. The acting is wonderful. Everybody in the cast delivers the jokes hilariously. Also the the actors never seem to overact at all. There are a few jokes that go on for to long, but it is aware of this. If only another comedy that doesn't deserve to have its name mentioned (cough Disaster Movie cough) was self-aware that the jokes it had were to long. It really is a shame that British people can say that they have awesome comedies like this, and we have a lot of awful comedies like (sigh) Disaster Movie. This film is a work of genius.4 stars out of 4

This has got to be one of the side-splittingly funniest films of all time.No one can deliver such cerebral humor as the pythonians,and this is truly their finest hour(OK,so its about an hour and a half).This film doesn't even wait for the show to begin to start you laughing,it goes for the throat during the opening credits(sorry I don't want to ruin it for you).It made me laugh till my tears were crying.If you are a single chap, and you want to know if a certain girl is right for you,then try this.Bring her to your home,cook her a wonderful meal,complete with a great bottle of wine,then plop her down in front of the telly and start this video(or DVD,whatever).If she is not laughing hysterically within ten minutes,then turn off the box,and break up with her immediately,as she has an impaired humor center in her brain(and will only cause you tremendous misery in the coming years).I only wish I had known of the "python Challenge" during my dating days.It would have saved me years of unremitting heartache(as well as thousands in legal fees). Please trust me on this one,it might just save your life.I give this movie an unrepentant 10,but would give it a 20+ if it were an option.

After the brilliant Life of Brian, I was looking forward to watching Monty Python and the Holy Grail. And I loved it, I don't think it is quite as good as Life of Brian, but it is definitely one of the better Monty Python comedies for sheer hilarity and fun. The story like Life of Brian isn't the strongest component but this is in no way a criticism and yes the special effects are cheesy but perhaps that was the intention. My only problem with the film was that the ending is a little flat, but that is a minor criticism compared to how much I loved this film. The script is irreverent and highly quotable, and the soundtrack is even funnier. As a comedy it is wonderfully inventive, that debunks the Dark Ages and legends of chivalry through King Arthur, The Black Knight, God and the "knights who say ni". Comedy highlights include the trial with Connie Booth's witch and the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch sequence. Even the sets are quite well designed and authentic. And the acting is simply wonderful, John Cleese, Terry Jones(the encounter with Dennis's mother was hilarious), Graham Chapman, Terry Gilliam, Michael Palin and Eric Idle perfectly live up to their exceptional talents. Overall, a great comedy and a great film. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox

I rewatched this movie for the first time in almost 10 years to see if it still held up. Did it? Kind of. The first 20-30 minutes are great, the last 20 minutes are great, but the middle really drags.Everything from the beginning of the film to the point where the knights split up is superb. The false opening, the second false opening, coconuts, swallows, "tis but a scratch", monster hand turning the book pages, the Trojan bunny, that stuff was great. Once the knights split up, the movie screeches to a dead halt for 40 minutes. The scenes were basically unrelated skits that meandered about to pad the running time to theatrical length. This wouldn't be so bad if these scenes were at least funny, but they weren't. I didn't laugh or even chuckle once through this whole stretch. Sir Robin, Galahad, Lancelot, none of it did it for me. The Knights Who Say Ni was the only somewhat humorous thing, mostly because of how stupid it was. Once they reunite, things start picking up again. The killer bunny, The Man From Scene 24 at the bridge, intermission, getting arrested, all classic stuff. Had the middle section been heavily trimmed, this could have been fantastic, but that middle section really bogged the movie down to just "very good" for me. Apart from the humor, I'll say the film looks good given its small budget, and the foggy locations give it some nice atmosphere. Comedy can be very subjective, so how much you enjoy this film is dependent on your sense of humor. If you're not a fan of British humor, you're going to hate it, but if the first half hour grabs you, you'll probably enjoy it.

Hilarious and a movie to last through the ages! This was one I came to late, I was in my 20s before I watched this film for the first time, but boy do I wish I had seen it earlier in life. The comedy in the film is perfect for me, and every line is delivered with the perfect amount of sarcasm and wit. To some this may seem too stupid or silly, but I think it's borderline brilliant. The film has way too many jokes and gags to choose a favorite but to me some of the best are the black night at the bridge, the French, and of course the "huge tracks of land" quotes 🤣🤣🤣 I don't want to really give much detail about what the this movie is about because it's just an experience you have to enjoy for yourself.

I've seen "Monty Python and the Holy Grail" a bunch of times. I saw it in the theaters when it first came out. I've seen it in the theaters every time it was rereleased, including just the other day (Regal Westbury, NY). Besides the five or six times I've seen "...Holy Grail" in the theaters (including one screening in Brooklyn hosted by John Cleese), I've seen it countless times on video. It's one of the funniest movies ever made. One great scene after another. Big laughs throughout. The Python guys are all on the top of their game. It's also a terrifically produced movie. It's probably the best looking low budget movie ever made. "...Holy Grail" is a true classic.

The first 20 minutes are comedy gold, with typical Python intelligence, which means smarts combined with pure silliness in surgical precision, elevating the whole.After that, the movie has 60 minutes of ups and downs, not always overcoming the lack of budget, sometimes overusing the "breaking the fourth wall" joke, or just focusing in a less funny joke just a bit too long.Still, overall, it's impossible to say the quality isn't good, because for every bad segment, with get an opposite amazing one. Big step forward from the 1971 film.

This is going to be an unpopular opinion it seems but I didn't find this film very funny. It had some parts where I chuckled and some bits were clever but also a lot of it was annoying. I usually like silly and absurd films but this one was too random for me to like. Maybe I was not the target audience for this? Or maybe I just didn't understand the humor. Not sure. Either way, the trailer looked a lot more promising than what I actually end up seeing.

I loved the movie and I'm not going to go into any detail about the movie itself.  Some people though are knocking the ending, but again still praising the rest of the movie, and I'd like to just say that the ending is just fine the way it is.  Yes, they had planned to have some big storming the castle ending to the film which may or may not have been hilarious; but, they ran out of money on the film (look at the use of coconuts, a real budget would have meant real horses).  The ending that all this is really just a fantasy (so to speak) about a fantasy saga actually is quite funny. Is does end abruptly, but even that is fine in the context of a wacky movie. Just enjoy it and don't harp on the fact that the ending doesn't fit the rest of the movie, it does if you let it.