The year 1983 saw a strange phenomenon; two rival Bond films. "Octopussy", starring Roger Moore, was part of the official Cubby Broccoli Bond franchise. "Never Say Never Again", made by a rival producer, is, apart from the awful "Casino Royale", the only Bond movie which does not form part of that franchise. Its big attraction was that it brought back the original Bond, Sean Connery; its title reputedly derived from Connery's remark after "Diamonds Are Forever" that he would never again play the role. Some have complained that Connery was, at 53, too old for the role, but he was in fact three years younger than his successor Moore, who not only made "Octopussy" in the same year but went on to make one further Bond film, "A View to a Kill", two years later.The film owes its existence to the settlement of a lawsuit about the film rights to Ian Fleming's work. It is perhaps unfortunate that the terms of the settlement included a clause that the new film had to be a remake of "Thunderball", as that was perhaps not the greatest of the Connery Bonds. (A remake of "Dr No" or "Goldfinger" might have worked better). The plot is much the same as that of the earlier film; the terrorist organisation SPECTRE, acting together with a megalomaniac tycoon named Largo, have stolen two American nuclear warheads and are attempting to hold the world's governments to ransom by threatening to detonate them unless they receive a vast sum of money. It falls to Bond, of course, to save the world by tracking down the missing missiles.The film is fortunate in that it has not just one but two of the most beautiful Bond girls of all, Barbara Carrera as the seductive but lethal Fatima Blush and Kim Basinger as Largo's girlfriend Domino who defects to Bond's side after learning of her lover's evil plans. A number of the Bond films have a plot that hangs upon the hero's ability to win over the villain's mistress or female accomplice- there are similar developments, for example, in "Goldfinger", "Live and Let Die" and "The Living Daylights". In the official series, Bond's ally is normally regarded as the female lead, but here Carrera, playing the villainess, is billed above Basinger, who was a relatively unknown actress at the time. Basinger, of course, has gone on to become one of Hollywood's biggest stars, whereas Carrera is one of a number of Bond girls who have somewhat faded from view.Of the villains, Max von Sydow makes an effective Blofeld, the head of SPECTRE, but Klaus Maria Brandauer seemed too bland and nonthreatening as Largo, except perhaps during the "Domination" game, a more sophisticated variant on those violent computer games such as "Space Invaders" that were so popular in the early eighties. Brandauer can be an excellent actor in his native German, in films such as "Mephisto" and "Oberst Redl", but he does not comes across so expressively in English.One of the film's features is that it both follows the normal Bond formula and, at times, departs from it. There is the standard world-in-peril plot, chase sequences, a series of exotic locations, glamorous women, sinister villains and a specially written theme song based on the film's title. There is, however, no extended pre-credits sequence, and we see some familiar characters in a new light. For example, Bond's boss M becomes a languid, supercilious aristocrat, his American colleague Felix Leiter is shown as black for the only time, and the scientist Q is portrayed by Alec McCowen as a disillusioned cynic with (despite his characteristically upper-class Christian name of Algernon) a distinctly working-class accent. There is also an amusing cameo from Rowan Atkinson as a bumbling British diplomat. Although Connery was perhaps not quite a good here as he was in some of his earlier films in the role, this ringing the changes on the familiar theme makes this one of the more memorable Bonds. 7/10 A goof. Rowan Atkinson's character states that he is from the British Embassy in Nassau. As, however, the Bahamas is a Commonwealth country, Britain would have a High Commission in its capital, not an Embassy.

Only Connery could bring that particular style with a line like that Fatima crashes into Bond's arms when she water-skis up to the super agent in Nassau and apologizes, 'Oh, how reckless of me. I made you all wet.' The super agent replies, 'Yes, but my martini is still dry.'Barbara Carrera makes a great villain, stealing the show as SPECTRE executioner Fatima Blush Fatima is number 12 in the SPECTRE chain of command, and is a gorgeous assassin who takes intense sensations of pleasure in killing Fatima assumes all the deadly characteristics of Fiona, proving to be one of Bond's toughest adversaries She is a victim of her vanity She's good at what she does, and wants the world to know it But her vanity is her downfall Using every possible approach to eliminate 007, Fatima is a wild and cunning woman who makes love to the man she is about to kill Austrian actor Klaus-María Brandauer (Largo) does not make a very formidable opponent for 007 Referred to as number one in the SPECTRE chain of command, Largo resides in the Bahamas, and travels aboard his super yacht, the Flying Saucer Max Von Sydow becomes the fourth actor to appear as SPECTRE chief Ernst Stavro Blofeld, once more plotting to put the world at ransom Kim Basinger takes the part once owned by the lovely French actress Claudine Auger She is Domino, the mistress of Largo, who soon falls deeply in love with her rescuer Black actor Bernie Casey becomes the sixth actor to play CIA agent Felix Leiter after Jack Lord, Cec Linder, Rik Van Nutter, Norman Burton, and David Hedison...Edward Fox portrays the new, unsympathetic 'M.' Pamela Salem is the third actress to play Miss Moneypenny. Lois Maxwell was the first and Barbara Bouchet was the second.Valerie Leon is the sexy lady in the Bahamas who fished 007 out of the blue water and saved his life by making love to him in her own room Valerie was the Sardinian hotel receptionist in 'The Spy Who loved Me' when Bond and Anya arrive seeking StrombergPrunella Gee is Shrublands physical therapist Patricia Saskia Cohen Tanugi is Nicole, Bond's Secret Service contact in the South of France Gavan O'Herlihy is Jack Petachi, the U.S. Air Force communications officer who duplicates the President of the United States' 'eye print' and arms two cruise missiles with nuclear warheads Rowan Atkinson is the bumbling foreign officer Nigel Small-Fawcett; and Alec McCowen is Algernon, the armorer who provides 007 some formidable items If you like to see Connery playing a tense battle of wills, disguised as a masseur, attacked by robot-controlled sharks, giving away a considerable amount of money for a tango dance, thrown into a medieval dungeon, don't miss this second of only two "unofficial" James Bond films

MASTER PLAN: blackmail the world after stealing two nuclear warheads. Haven't we heard this plan before? Yes, in "Thunderball"(65). And, wow, two Bond films in the same year (the other was "Octopussy") - what can it mean? This is now a curiosity in the Bond film series (and not a part of the canon series), an anomaly, an oddity, a film stemming from the real-life battles between Eon Productions and their nemesis, producer McClory, who won rights to remake the earlier film. It probably would have been better if he'd succeeded earlier - say, around 1976 or so; as it is, Connery, who managed to equal Roger Moore's number of Bond portrayals with this film, is a full dozen years older since his previous Bonder "Diamonds Are Forever," and it shows. This isn't really a parody, like "Casino Royale" from 1967, though there are some too-cute moments, right up to the conclusion, a freeze-frame of Bond winking at us. There are also elements of a weird re-start, such as the first scene with Bond and M, who mentions he is new to the position, much like the Bond & female M scene in "GoldenEye." In this version, M (Fox) is still male, though he's a stuffy high-strung bureaucrat, opposed to double-0 agents, and looks a bit younger than Bond. This is a bit strange to take in, just on its own. Q is played by one of the best British actors, McCowen, so his scenes have a nice flair, though he has a silly name, Algernon.There's no teaser sequence or fancy credits such as we're used to - in fact, the beginning is so mundane, it's as if we're watching a typically substandard seventies thriller, with a wretched song and an awful score. Many of the early scenes are perfunctory; in other words, they're presented as the stuff we're used to seeing in a Bond film (Bond shoots bad guys, Bond is eyed by the ladies, Bond is menaced by sharks), but without the style and panache of the regular film series. As in "Thunderball," Bond is sent to a health spa early in the film. In an early action scene, he's attacked by a brawny assassin/henchman in the 'Oddjob/Jaws' mold who seems unstoppable, and things appear to be picking up, until he's stopped by a silly gag. I admit I did laugh when I saw this in the theater way back when - but I don't nowadays. I also get the impression of a conspiracy by the producer to throw in some banal stuff amid the standard spy action, not helped any by what seems like in-joking involving Bond's aging hero bit, including M's comically shrill disapproval. It mirrors the problem with Moore in his last couple of Bonders, where the audience is laughing at the hero - undesirable conditions for a Bonder. Things seem to improve again in the middle half, as much of the action here is dominated by the female villain, Blush (actress Carrera in her best role). She exults in her performance as the persistent killer with some odd sexual preoccupations, anticipating the much later lethal ladies such as Onatopp in "GoldenEye." But, the best performance is by Brandauer as the main villain, Largo - a much different Largo than the one in "Thunderball." He's almost on another, superior level from the rest of the cast, suggesting insanity better than most other Bond villains, somewhat effeminate in some of his gestures, but also magnetic when sparring with Bond, especially in their memorably electrifying video game duel, a bizarre yet entrancing confrontation. Von Sydow, always good, has a much briefer role as famous uber-villain Blofeld, staying behind the scenes for most of the movie. Basinger as Domino the Bond girl is, unfortunately, similar to many of the Bond girls of that period: nice to look at, but usually helpless and kind of an airhead, though she demonstrates fear convincingly. Connery, looking his age (early fifties), goes through the motions here, but hey, it's still Connery as Bond; he can do this kind of thing in his sleep (which he nearly does) and is always watchable, with that easy charisma. The pace is actually pretty good for awhile up until the climactic shoot-out, in spite of some cheap production values. The finale, underwater with Largo, is murky stuff, with no tension, as if the filmmakers just gave up by this point and wanted to get it over with. We kind of forget what the threat is about half-an-hour before the end. Oh, and, Atkinson is his small role is abominable, like nails on chalkboard. Connery would not return. Bond:7 Villain:9 Femme Fatales:5 Henchwoman/men:8 Leiter:6 Fights:5 Stunts/Chases:6 Gadgets:4 Auto:5 Locations:6 Pace:6 overall:6

Sean Connery returns as James Bond, in a movie remake of Thunderball. Here, mad man Maximilian Largo steals two American nuclear warheads and demands millions of dollars in ransom from the world leaders. As a result, MI6 reactivates their "00" agents and James Bond comes out of retirement to carry on the mission.Armed with secret weapons and an armor of one-liners, Connery still shines once again as the suave 007, though, he does look rather emotionless and mellow portraying his character at times. There is lesser action in this movie than in previous Bond films, but some of the the thrills are still a little entertaining, especially the part where Bond attempts to dispatch the femme fatale Fatima Blush (Barbara Carrera).Sorely missing is John Berry's iconic James Bond theme and score, and what we have instead is a very 80s-sounding soundtrack from Michel Legrand. The acting was just OK for the most part - Connery had some good chemistry with the Bond Girls, but much of the other cast members were forgettable. Max von Sydow gave a mediocre performance as Blofeld, Edward Fox gave a very overzealous and pompous portrayal of M and Rowan Atkinson gave a rather unfunny role as Small-Fawcett. Klaus Maria Brandauer gave a convincing villain in Maximilian Largo - slimy and sly, making you want to punch him in the face.The film its adventurous moments, but, it's not one of the best Bond movies out there - it's more like a stand alone action flick.Grade C+

Never Say Never Again got its title because Sean Connery had said in the 1970s (shortly after Diamonds Are Forever) that he would "never" do another Bond film. However, in 1983 he was persuaded to return to the role for a one-off special, a remake of his fourth entry Thunderball, and his wife rather humorously said to him that in the future he should make a point never to say never again. This film actually came out close to a Roger Moore entry in the series (Octopussy), and although Connery had more admirers as 007 than Moore, it was surprisingly Octopussy that scored a bigger box office hit.Connery's Bond is older and more vulnerable than we remember him. His boss, M, doesn't hold him in very high regard and actually suggests that he take some time off in a plush health spa. During his time here, Bond uncovers a strange plot and the further he delves into the mystery the more he discovers. It seems that his old adversaries SPECTRE, fronted by the nefarious Blofeld (Max Von Sydow) have stolen two nuclear warheads which they will detonate if they are not paid an extortionate ransom. Chief overseer of this hideous plan is Emile Largo (Klaus Maria Brandeur), and Bond pursues Largo around the globe in an attempt to stop him, visiting such places as Monte Carlo and North Africa during the course of the mission.The music by Michel Legrand is poor by series standards. It sounds rather similar to his music for the sleazy 1981 movie Your Ticket Is No Longer Valid, and is really ill-suited to this Bond production. However, in terms of villains, they've come with a couple of great ones for this film. Largo, as personified by Brandeur, is smooth but deadly, and hench-woman Fatima Blush (Barbara Carrera) is uncommonly disturbing. Rowan Atkinson also has a fairly good role as a dim-witted agent assigned to "help" Bond. The big action sequences are quite good, especially the horse chase around the North African sea-fortress and the motorbike chase, although some of the underwater moments are tough to understand because it's hard to figure out who is who behind the diving masks.

Yes, it's Sean Connery playing Bond again, looking more alive and into his part than any time since the first time they made this film, in 1965 when it was called "Thunderball". But the tongue is so firmly in cheek one wonders if Connery isn't employing a few observed tricks from his friend and more humorous successor, Roger Moore.Moore is my favorite Bond, but Connery makes a strong case for himself in this unusual outing. The only serious Bond film not made under the aegis of the classic Eon Bond series, "Never Say Never Again" is an irreverent return to the well. Soft on action, it's nevertheless strong on character and clever dialogue.Bond, it's made clear right away, is a man in disfavor. No matter how many times he has saved the world, his new boss thinks little of his fat lifestyle. "Too many free radicals, that's your problem...Caused by eating too much red meat, white bread, too many martinis." "Then I shall cut out the white bread, sir," Bond smartly replies.An early fight sequence in a spa represents the movie's high point action-wise, with Bond and an attacker fighting their way through a kitchen, a bedroom, and a laboratory before Bond finally douses his opponent, ironically with no small help from those free radicals. Humor is liberally applied in the film, rather more cleverly than most of Moore's outings, though Connery seems to be having more fun sending himself up as a result of Moore's less egotistic example.Was it because he was making a good chunk of the gross? Or was it working for less stingy producers? Whatever it is, the screenplay serves his laid-back style well, and the result is richer and more entertaining than Connery's prior two Eon Bond outings, "You Only Live Twice" and "Diamonds Are Forever".The 1980s were not a good decade for Bond, whether it was Connery, Moore, or Timothy Dalton. Leg warmers, video games, and ugly sports cars are all in evidence, and the Bianca Jagger sunglasses Klaus Maria Brandauer is seen wearing in his first scene do him no favors. Forget first impressions. Brandauer's role as the chief villain, Maximilian Largo, is one of the best in any Bond film, with Brandauer enjoyably playing up his character's menace and mania. At one point, he allows Bond free roam of his situation room, with a martini to boot, and his dancing eyes and mad, engaging grin make for compelling company throughout.The best thing in this film, other than Connery, are the Bond girls, shot with more attention to personality than normal in Bond films, a testament to cinematographer Douglas Slocombe and director Irvin Kirshner. Barbara Carrera was nominated for a Golden Globe for her role as the villainess Fatima Blush, every bit as crazy as Largo and even nicer to look at. She doesn't last the whole movie; you almost need her gone in order to focus on the others.Kim Basinger's breasts and buttocks should have had their own agents for the screen time they get in this film, but I'm not complaining. Basinger's a rare beauty who in this early role as Largo's mistress mixes incredible hotitude with a childlike vulnerability that brings out the Bond in me, and many others I suspect. (Her lips and cheekbones are pretty sweet, too.)It's not a well-constructed film. It's a knockoff of a better Bond movie with a sloppy storyline, a terrible score, and a flat ending. But it does have Connery, proving his was the definitive take on cinema's definitive secret agent, even if he steals a page or two from my 007, Mr. Moore. The end result is entertaining enough, so I'm not complaining.

In 1965 producer Kevin McLory -who owns a part of the Bond cinematic rights- associate with EON Productions (Harry Saltzman and Albert Broccoli) for making "Thunderball", the fourth film of the 007 franchise. The star is Sean Connery, of course.In 1982 McLory wins a legal battle and can produce an "independent" Bond film. "Never say never again" (NSNA) is one of the two "unofficial" 007 films made outside EON (the other is the 1967 comedy spoof "Casino Royale"). NSNA is a remake of "Thunderball" and stars the original Bond, Sean Connery -who comes back to the role after many years of absence.The film is released some months after "Octopussy" with Roger Moore, the 13th episode of the EON series. At the time press calls it "War of the Bonds"... Both films are a big success in 1983, even if "Octopussy" earns more money at the box office.NSNA is a luxurious film made by excellent technicians -director Irvin Kershner who led "The Empire strikes back", Douglas Slocombe -cinematographer of "Raiders of the lost Ark"-, and screenwriter Lorenzo Semple Jr -who wrote "The three days of the Condor"- among others...The cast is excellent with Connery, a then relatively unknown Kim Basinger, Barbara Carrera, Klaus Maria Brandauer, Max Von Sydow, Edward Fox...Although all that the film remains inferior to the original "Thunderball". It lacks many fundamental ingredients for being a real Bond movie: there's not the traditional gun barrel sequence, there's not the "James Bond theme", M and Q are not played by the traditional actors... It's a copyright reason: EON only is allowed to use these elements. Briefly, NSNA lacks the classic cinematic 007 atmosphere.On the other hand the film is exciting and enjoyable. Brandauer is a very good villain and the women (Basinger and Carrera) are sensual and gorgeous. But the main highlight is Sean Connery! He's once again wonderful in the role, he's older but looks fitter and nicer here than in "Diamonds are forever", his last performance in the role of the British super-spy before NSNA.

The final installment in Connery/Bond series finds 007 on a mission to thwart Spectre which has threatened to blow up cities if a ransom is not paid . James Bond (Sean Connery who shows his face clean-shaven and wearing a variety of grey and brown wigs) matches wits with a nasty , good-looking tycoon , Largo (Klaus Maria Brandauer) , who is holding the world nuclear hostage as part of a diabolical plan schemed by Espectre led by a sinister leader (Max Von Sydow) . As Emilio Largo , is a ruthless and flamboyant enforcer who has hatched a scheme against the North Atlantic Treaty powers . British send his "00" agent , James Bond , to recover the warheads before SPECTRE carries out its threat to detonate the devices on the UK and US mainlands . As the world is held hostage by the threat of a nuclear nightmare , Bond jumps into action , racing against the clock as the trail leads him to tropical Nassau . Later on , Bond facing off heavies and bedding a lot of pink and dust beauties (Barbara Carrera as Fatima Blush , Kim Basinger as Domino , Valerie Leon , among others) . Will 007 prevent the killing of millions of innocent victims?Connery returns to the world of Bond after 12 years , it results to be smooth in this peculiar remake of ¨Thunderball¨(1965) by Terence Young with Claudine Auger , Adolfo Celi , Luciana Paluzzi . The noisy action is staged with all the mechanical efficiency of the classic Bond pictures with a bit more bite . After Diamonds are forever (1971) Sean told her he'd never play James Bond again, there he was, playing James Bond again , her response was for him to "never say never again" ; however , for a big salary he accepted this film . Although Connery is back to recover two nuclear warheads stolen , purists will have qualms deeming this part of the official Bond series since longtime producers Albert ¨Cubby¨ Broccoli , Harry Saltzman , had nothing to do with this endeavor . This Bond film was not part of the franchise produced by these producers , but here Kevin McClory who was producer and co-writer of Thunderball (1965), won a legal battle against Ian Fleming to make his own Bond movie , the settlement stipulated that it had to effectively be a remake of Thunderball . Here James Bond/Connery bedding a variety of wonderful women , the bond girls are the followings : Kim Basinger as the beautiful heroine , Barbara Carrera is excellently cast as the nasty villainess and the Hammer-girl Valerie Leon . Bond/Connery is given hot competition in the acting department by Klaus Maria Brandauer who makes ¨Largo¨ a stunning , memorable smiling psychotic baddie from Sprectra criminal organization , replacing prior Adolfo Celi . Being Final James Bond film to feature Spectre until recent film Spectre (2015) . Support cast is frankly magnificent as Bernie Casey , Alec McCowen , charming Pamela Salem as Miss Moneypenny , Rowan Atkinson as Embassy official , Edward Fox , Gavan O'Herlihy , Ronald Pickup and brief acting by the busty Bond girl Valerie Leon as Lady in Bahamas .Colorful cinematography by Douglas Slocombe shot on several locations in Côte d'Azur, Antibes, Beaulieu-Sur-Mer, Alpes-Maritimes,France , Malta Nassau, New Providence Island, Bahamas , La Alcazaba , Almería, El Ejido, Almería, Andalucia, Spain . However , this ¨Never say never again¨ is hampered by an atrocious soundtrack by Michael Legrand . The motion picture was professionally directed by Irwin Kershener , but with no originality . The main theme that runs through many of his films is social alienation and human weaknesses - although his biggest commercial success was the science fiction blockbuster ¨Star Wars: Episodio V Empire strikes again¨ and made decent sequels as ¨Return a man called horse¨and ¨Robocop II¨. This is an acceptable and passable Bond movie but inferior to other entries . This monarch of mayhem and luxury strides easily back into his kingdom .

It also has one of the worst horse chase sequence accompanied by lousy music.I first saw this in the early 90s on a vhs.Revisited it recently.This is a remake of Thunderball (which is rated 4/10 by me).Connery returns as an aged n outta shape Bond for the seventh and final time, marking his return to the character 12 years after Diamonds Are Forever.Here Bond is tasked with tracking down missing weapons which leads Bond to the Bahamas where he crosses path with Maximillian Largo, SPECTRE's top agent.This time Ernst Stavro Blofeld is played by Max von Sydow n Largo by Klaus Maria Brandauer.This one has the lousiest pre credit scene and of the worst ending.There is nothing memorable or noteworthy in this film except for the two lovely babes.This time Bond faces Largo (without his iconic eye patch) and Blofeld is never shown face to face.An unfit n aged Bond is able to fight off Lippe, a 6ft 5 inches wrestler in a gym with one of the worst n despicable weapon, his own urine.Bond gets to cool off with the hottie Barbara Carrera (worst dressed in this movie, check out her black outfit). Barbara Carrera is amazingly hot in the nurse's uniform.Bond also gets to cool off with Prunella Gee, Kim Basinger n Valerie Leon.

I've always liked Sean Connery, but as James Bond I've always favored Roger Moore. Still it was Connery who set the Bond standard and while he had by 1983 established himself as something other than James Bond, the money must have been irresistible for him to make one more appearance as 007 and save the world from the evil designs of Spectre.And what designs they are in Never Say Never Again. SPECTRE with the help of a foolish young Air Force officer who happens to be Kim Bassinger's brother stole two nuclear missiles during a war games exercise and now SPECTRE headed by Blofeld, played here by Max Von Sydow is threatening blackmail of the world.Von Sydow's operations guy is Klaus Maria Brandauer who is also courting Bassinger and is a bit on the crazy side. And he's got a female assassin working for him in Barbara Carrera who makes Angelina Jolie as Nora Croft look like Mrs. Butterworth.But before Sean Connery can even get started he's got to deal with a new 'M' running things at British Intelligence. Edward Fox thinks Connery is old fashioned in his methods and costs the British taxpayers too much money with his violent ways. I really did enjoy Fox's performance, he's like the great grandson of Colonel Blimp.I also enjoyed Carrera, she's something to look at and quite resourceful in her methods. When she's scuba diving with Connery in the Bahamas, note how she puts Mr. Shark on 007's case.Will Connery do James Bond again? He was widely quoted as saying who would they cast him as at this point, Roger Moore's father? But I think Connery would still be formidable in a wheelchair.

I am a huge Bond fan and Sean Connery is also my favourite Bond. Now when I first saw this film I was much younger and probably didn't notice most of it's faults (because it had Sean Connery, it must be good) But now I've watched it a 3rd time, I now realise Never Say Never Again is probably one of the worst films I've ever seen. I couldn't possibly watch it in one sitting as I'd be on the brink of suicide by the final scene.Yes, there are some highlights, the opening sequence is exciting but it is ruined by the horrendous theme tune that's played over the top of it. There is also an abundance of good dialogue (Fatima: Oh, I got you all wet; Bond: Yes, but my martini's still dry) and some interesting locations but they are sadly, wasted. Bond visits two of the most beautiful locations in the world, The Bahamas and the French Riviera and yet we see about 60 seconds of them on-screen before he's shipped off to somewhere else.For most of the film there is hardly any reference to the actual plot (the stolen nuclear devices) at all, it seems as if Bond treats his 'mission' as a holiday where he can bed as many women as possible (4 on this occasion). The action sequences are incredibly boring and predicable, and the underwater shots lack any imagination or flair. Its hard to believe that this was directed by Irvin Kershner, who was responsible for the superb 'Empire Strikes Back'.As for the characters, if you can call them that, they are probably the most boring and 1-dimensional of any bond film. The villain is almost non-existent, Kim Basinger is the most useless Bond girl to date (including Mary goodnight) and serves no purpose in the story at all. The (attempt at a) femme fatale, Fatima Blush is also truly dire. An awful character played by an equally awful actress, the adolescent producers obviously think they can make her 'sexy' by having her keep snakes in her car, heroin needles in her garter, and have her prance about in leather trousers and nurse's outfits whilst cackling like an old hag.NSNA looks terribly dated, and it is only 23 years old. The set pieces are poorly-thought out and look cheap (probably because most of the films budget was spent on getting Connery back) The majority of the script is dull and clichéd and the entire film looks like it was edited in about 5 minutes. And when the film finally reaches a climax, it refuses to end. There is still about another 20 minutes of tedium before it slowly comes to a halt. An incredibly boring and pointless film, even the worst movies in the official series (golden gun and die another day) are more entertaining than this. It's no surprise Sean Connery refuses to watch the Bond films, this wasn't exactly a high-point in his career.

Never Say Never Again (1983) is an unofficial James Bond film.It's a remake of Thunderball (1965).They both have Sean Connery as the super agent 007 James Bond.That's right, Connery returned one more time to the role that made him world famous.SPECTRE is causing trouble again with his nuclear and Mr. Bond is needed again.Irvin Kershner is the director of the movie.Max von Sydow plays the super villain with his white cat.Klaus Maria Brandauer is the crook Maximilian Largo.Kim Basinger is his girl Domino Petachi.When she meets Bond she won't be Largo's girl for long.Edward Fox plays M.Pamela Salem is Miss Moneypenny.Alec McCowen is Q.For me it's a little weird to see someone else than Desmond Llewelyn playing that character.Then there's also Rowan Atkinson playing Nigel Small-Fawcett.Mr.Atkinson is best known of course as Mr.Bean.This movie is better than most give credit for.There are many great scenes.It's enjoyable to watch Bond give a massage to Kim Basinger.And the kid in me always enjoys a good chase scene.This has got one with James on a motorcycle.There's also some under water action.So I enjoyed this movie.Let's hope Connery ends his retirement and returns for Bond's role one more time.

This is a terribly uninteresting movie and it's amazing that after a dozen year absence as Bond, Sean Connery would pick THIS picture for a comeback. They must have offered him TONS of $$--no other explanation makes sense. The biggest problem is that instead of creating a movie for Connery, they just chose to re-make one of Connery's previous Bond films! Why not something new instead of a second-rate remake of a film he already did?! Well, it turns out the studio could NOT get the rights to Bond, though, because of a loophole, they could legally re-make Thunderball! This is a rotten excuse to make the film.Apart from the beautiful Kim Basinger, there is nothing about this movie that makes it better than the original (THUNDERBALL)--in fact, the original is so much better. Because of this, it seems like the makers of the film had contempt for the audience--they didn't even bother giving them something new! Particularly uninteresting is the character played by Barbara Carrera, though Klaus Maria Brandaur isn't much of a villain as well.My biggest feeling is WHY--Why was this film made in the first place?!

'14th' Bond movie (unofficial)The Sean Connery movies in the Bond series always seemed to have the attitude that only Connery was the 'real' Bond. That's why after the greatest Bond movie of them all ("On her majesty's secret service" with George Lazenby as James Bond), the next movie - starring Connery, again - seemed to pretend that Lazenby never happened. And so it is with this movie...it's like Roger Moore never happened and nor will he. The narrative elements concluded by Moore (in, say, "For your eyes only") are ignored. For this reason the movie comes across to me as a one off Bond movie...I imagine that the novels always existed, but no movie had ever been made from them. "Never say die" seems like a "What if?" story. I.e. Presuming knowledge of the existence of the novels, the movie imagines what happens to Bond near the end of his professional career. Of course, in some ways this movie is a remake of Connery's earlier "Thunderball" movie. Not exactly sure of the legal background to this movie, but I'm guessing that all the elements that were mostly author's Ian Fleming's have been removed and they've worked and reworked the elements that belong to the screenwriter of "Thunderball". It works. All those dull elements of "Thunderball" are gone...the underwater travelogue which just goes on and on. And on. Gone. Phew.Exotic locations: The Bahamas, Casino Royale in Monte CarloPlot: MI6 is underfunded and under-appreciated by the British Government. Bond is now limited to training the new recruits to the spying game...and playing war games instead of doing actual spy work. His direct superior, "M", has little time for the "00s" and lets him know it. When evil organisation "S. P. E. C. T. R. E" steals two nuclear warheads, Bond just may get back on to active duty as a "00" agent.Franchise clichés:Pre title sequence - No. This movie faced legal challenges as Roger Moore was the encumbent James Bond. Moore's Bond movie - Octopussy - was in direct competition with this Connery movie and was released shortly before it. For this reason you don't the signature 'gun barrel' scene. Instead you get a 'flyscreen' effect with "007" wallpapering the screen. You also don't get Monty Norman's famous Bond theme music.Theme song - Still part of this movie. It's "Never say never again" and it's not bad. For the first time, I think, the singer doesn't credited at the start of the movie. You have to read the end credits for that...sung by Lani Hall and written by Heb Alpert. Sergio Mendez produced it. Song has a nice jazzy cocktail lounge vibe to it. Herb Alpert also plays the trumpet for this song...gives himself a solo to boot!Q - Yes...BUT, it's a new guy..."Algernon". He has a touch of the Michael Caines to him. After the low point in the Bond and Q relationship in "Octopussy", it's quite a relief to see them chummy here. He has the line to Bond which I must have remembered from the promotional ad of "I hope we are going to have some gratuitous sex and violence". Bond misses the obvious rejoinder...something like "You must buy me dinner first!".M - Yes...BUT, again, it's a new guy. This M is a bit of a pompous arse and I really didn't enjoy being in his company throughout this movie.Moneypenny - Yes...but...you know the drill. Presumably there would have been legal problems if they tried to recruit the original actors who played these characters or if they had the same characters...explaining why M and Q are not only played by different actors in this movie, but are different people too.Silly female character names - Nigel Small-Fawcett. Played by Rowan Atkinson for comedic relief. Sorry, that's the only name that stuck out...good to see men being the butt of these jokes for once though! Misogyny/Wine snobbery/End teaser - A "no" to all these usual elements, I think...nothing obvious, at least.Watch for:* homing sharks! * Kim Bassinger's character's reaction after a massage...nice and subtle.* Bond smoking a cigar.* Ah...I knew there was a Bond movie where I saw a spittle bridge between two characters that were kissing...it's THIS movie! * an old Connery/Bond getting the kind of attention from beautiful young women that just doesn't seem right! * a Casino Royale full of arcade video games! Really? And Largo's inscrutable self-made video game...honestly, he should win every time just by virtue of being able to make heads or tails of it! * one reason to treat this movie as a one off...just check out Felix Leiter! Did he spend too long in the solarium? * some nice jokes...M mentioning "free radicals" and Moneypenny's reaction to Bond's line on this. As well as a funny scene I remembered the punch line to all these years later...where Bond has to give a urine sample to a nurse. Good-o! * end credit "Thank "A. K."...presumably Arab brazilianaire Adnan Khashoggi.* Micheline Connery getting a credit for the title "Never say never again". Just looked her up on Wikipedia...Sean's wife.* Talia Shire Schwartzman getting an end credit too. Yes. "Adrian!".* The first Bond movie not to have been filmed at famous Pinewood studios? * This movie has different producers to the official Bond movies and it's based on an original story by McClory, Whittingham and Fleming.Note to self: - Domino mouths what to Bond after a shower and when M is on the phone? - ALCMs? - "Mais doucement" and "ciaou bello"...mean? - Schubert's "The trout" is played here, I think. Significance? Conclusion...If you consider Sean Connery to the ONLY Bond, then this is a decent send off for him...not as silly as "Diamonds are forever". You just have to imagine that all those movies without Connery never existed. It's 'closure' to Connery's Bond.

"Never Say Never Again", as everyone knows by now, was the second Bond film to be released in 1983, and was nearly as big a hit as "Octopussy" was (that film was still playing in some theaters when "Never Say Never Again" was released). Lacking the distinctive gun-barrel opening and famous Bond theme among other distinctive features of the EON franchise films, this lacks not only the feel of the EON Bond series, but of Fleming's work, leaving a seriously bloated mess of an American action thriller which happens to feature Bond as the lead character. Why? That's the first question anybody should be asking about this film. A cynic (which I probably qualify as) would say 'for the cash', others might say it was just to get Connery back as Bond and give him a proper goodbye. Some might say it was in retaliation to the direction the Moore films were headed in, although "For Your Eyes Only" is a far superior and far less bloated film than this, so that argument doesn't quite work.Of course, there's a lot to dislike here. Connery has moments of inspiration where he slips right back into character, but for most of the film he just looks really old and slightly ridiculous, which fits the plot but doesn't make his performance any less tired. Still, I'd argue that this is a better send-off for him as Bond than "Diamonds are Forever". Kim Basinger is a terrible Bond girl, and as much as I like Rowan Atkinson he shouldn't be anywhere near a Bond film. In addition, the villains here fall flat as well. That said, "Never Say Never Again" is not a film I can hate, even if I wanted to (and I never want to hate anything), simply because little of it comes off as especially bad yet all of it comes off as flat, bland, and uninspired, and far, far too American for a Bond film. It's just sort of... there being the bloated, over-long, but not terrible film it is. I don't count it as a 'Bond film', as it doesn't feel remotely like one, but even just as an action thriller it doesn't quite work.5/10

As a only a casual Bond fan I wasn't put off by the word "remake" because, after all, aren't all Bonds a form of remake? Certainly up to this point in time anyway! Connery has got himself down the gym for this one, but looks every one of his fifty plus years and then some. Thankfully the stuntmen do most of the work meaning a lot of the time he is wearing a helmet, headscarf, wet-suit or photographed from an obscure angle. Can always tell though - the stunt-man's hair moves while Connery's doesn't.(It is said that the original script included a scene where Bond puts the toupee on!) Listen you know the score or you are very young indeed. Man wants to take over the world, the sexy girl (or two) comes along before they face the ticking bomb. Kim Bassinger looks fabulous with a fantastic figure, but what shocking dancer! Gets her in to a leotard (and I am not complaining), but what a baby elephant.Can't even do a 360 turn! As per usual she looks vaguely disinterested in anything and everything - but there was an Oscar in it down the road so keep going darling! The logic of Bond is that he is sometimes very smart (knows how to operate secret equipment with no training!) and other times very stupid. Gets captured very easily, indeed doesn't seem to mind too much when he does. Usually there is a nice meal in it for him.Baddie No.1 Klaus Maria Brandauer isn't too shabby and plays the psychopathy quite well. Practicing for a better movie with a smaller paycheck maybe? Barbara Carrera is actually quite good, an assassin with bad taste in fashion, but a nice looking girl who looks like she can do mean. Even though Bond never cares who gets killed - as long as it is not him - so why is she bothering? Box office wise didn't do as well as the other "official" Bond of the day (Octopussy) and you can see why. Still, good enough for Sunday afternoon. As long as it is raining and there doesn't seem a break in sight...

This film is supose to be so bad, I never rented it for years.  I sure was wrong, I gave it a 6, when I heard this movie was a 3.  James Bond comming out of traing to the live field is a ok concept.  The film is on a lower budget, but they did well with what they have.  This film shows how good of an actor Sean Connery is.  Bronson with three time the budget never gets across in the mannor, or humor which Connery can. Connery makes this movie worth watching he adds so much to the scenes; when he gets into a fight he gives it Bond magic.  Connery delivers a one liner in a James Bond way. He maybe old, but there was still some gas in the tank.

As a lifelong Bond enthusiast, I saw this film at the cinema when it came out and so judged it from a contemporary view and again on a recent re-watching. It contains a few of the things that make a good Bond film and a lot more that make the weaker British films of the 70's/80's. Unfortunately, this gives the finished result a very unsatisfying tone.The cast are fine in doing well what they're given to do. I wish Edward Fox wasn't given M to play as shouting and hollering at his most successful agent, as if cantankerousness alone indicates a high standard of leader. The music drags the mood down and that's an error of commissioning a composer, not of the composer. The computer game sequence is a lame attempt to put the then-phenomenon of computer graphics into a serious context. But the audience isn't playing the game so they can't feel the player's drama. The list of such defects is too long.I wanted this to be just a satisfactory film if it couldn't be a good film. A lot of Bond films are flawed, particularly Moore's of that era, so there's a lot of give and take available. This just need to take too much suspension of belief for me, not in the story but in the film- making. If you get a different experience from watching it, that's great but I don't expect you to.

When Sean Connery left the Bond franchise after "You Only Live Twice" he was afraid of being type-casted as James Bond. He returned for "Diamonds Are Forever" and his demanding salary (which was unheard of at the time) forced Eon to cutback on special effects, making it a relatively weak movie.Connery left once again and went off to try and write his own Bond movies with Kevin McClory (Co-Writer of "Thunderball") but United Artist put a stop to that through legal battles. "Never Say Never Again" was the product of an early battle between Eon Productions and McClory. McClory would be allowed to make his own version ten years after the release of "Thunderball" and Connery, who didn't want to be type-casted as 007, came back to play 007 in this movie.After watching "Never Say Never Again," I can see why Eon had a dispute with Kevin McClory. The script is weak and choppy, making for a "Quantum of Solace" style flow to the movie. The less than exciting fight at the beginning is almost a disgrace to Connery's official Bond movies. Also, the quirky styling of Mr. Bean look alike Nigel, makes the movie more comical than the Roger Moore movies, which also detracted from the Bond franchise.This movie is on par with the worst of the Brosnan Movies. "Die Another Day" specifically and is better off forgotten. The stunts are just as ridiculous and the plot is a bit forced with characters being introduced in the most ridiculous ways (i.e. jet skiing off the water and into Bond's arms.)Perhaps it's because, having read the Bond novels, I find Daniel Craig to be the most accurate Bond, with Dalton and Lazenby close behind. You can get by without seeing "Never Say Never Again."

The year 1983 saw a strange phenomenon; two rival Bond films. "Octopussy", starring Roger Moore, was part of the official Cubby Broccoli Bond franchise. "Never Say Never Again", made by a rival producer, is, apart from the awful "Casino Royale", the only Bond movie which does not form part of that franchise. Its big attraction was that it brought back the original Bond, Sean Connery; its title reputedly derived from Connery's remark after "Diamonds Are Forever" that he would never again play the role. Some have complained that Connery was, at 53, too old for the role, but he was in fact three years younger than his successor Moore, who not only made "Octopussy" in the same year but went on to make one further Bond film, "A View to a Kill", two years later.The film owes its existence to the settlement of a lawsuit about the film rights to Ian Fleming's work. It is perhaps unfortunate that the terms of the settlement included a clause that the new film had to be a remake of "Thunderball", as that was perhaps not the greatest of the Connery Bonds. (A remake of "Dr No" or "Goldfinger" might have worked better). The plot is much the same as that of the earlier film; the terrorist organisation SPECTRE, acting together with a megalomaniac tycoon named Largo, have stolen two American nuclear warheads and are attempting to hold the world's governments to ransom by threatening to detonate them unless they receive a vast sum of money. It falls to Bond, of course, to save the world by tracking down the missing missiles.The film is fortunate in that it has not just one but two of the most beautiful Bond girls of all, Barbara Carrera as the seductive but lethal Fatima Blush and Kim Basinger as Largo's girlfriend Domino who defects to Bond's side after learning of her lover's evil plans. A number of the Bond films have a plot that hangs upon the hero's ability to win over the villain's mistress or female accomplice- there are similar developments, for example, in "Goldfinger", "Live and Let Die" and "The Living Daylights". In the official series, Bond's ally is normally regarded as the female lead, but here Carrera, playing the villainess, is billed above Basinger, who was a relatively unknown actress at the time. Basinger, of course, has gone on to become one of Hollywood's biggest stars, whereas Carrera is one of a number of Bond girls who have somewhat faded from view.Of the villains, Max von Sydow makes an effective Blofeld, the head of SPECTRE, but Klaus Maria Brandauer seemed too bland and nonthreatening as Largo, except perhaps during the "Domination" game, a more sophisticated variant on those violent computer games such as "Space Invaders" that were so popular in the early eighties. Brandauer can be an excellent actor in his native German, in films such as "Mephisto" and "Oberst Redl", but he does not comes across so expressively in English.One of the film's features is that it both follows the normal Bond formula and, at times, departs from it. There is the standard world-in-peril plot, chase sequences, a series of exotic locations, glamorous women, sinister villains and a specially written theme song based on the film's title. There is, however, no extended pre-credits sequence, and we see some familiar characters in a new light. For example, Bond's boss M becomes a languid, supercilious aristocrat, his American colleague Felix Leiter is shown as black for the only time, and the scientist Q is portrayed by Alec McCowen as a disillusioned cynic with (despite his characteristically upper-class Christian name of Algernon) a distinctly working-class accent. There is also an amusing cameo from Rowan Atkinson as a bumbling British diplomat. Although Connery was perhaps not quite a good here as he was in some of his earlier films in the role, this ringing the changes on the familiar theme makes this one of the more memorable Bonds. 7/10 A goof. Rowan Atkinson's character states that he is from the British Embassy in Nassau. As, however, the Bahamas is a Commonwealth country, Britain would have a High Commission in its capital, not an Embassy.

Only Connery could bring that particular style with a line like that Fatima crashes into Bond's arms when she water-skis up to the super agent in Nassau and apologizes, 'Oh, how reckless of me. I made you all wet.' The super agent replies, 'Yes, but my martini is still dry.'Barbara Carrera makes a great villain, stealing the show as SPECTRE executioner Fatima Blush Fatima is number 12 in the SPECTRE chain of command, and is a gorgeous assassin who takes intense sensations of pleasure in killing Fatima assumes all the deadly characteristics of Fiona, proving to be one of Bond's toughest adversaries She is a victim of her vanity She's good at what she does, and wants the world to know it But her vanity is her downfall Using every possible approach to eliminate 007, Fatima is a wild and cunning woman who makes love to the man she is about to kill Austrian actor Klaus-María Brandauer (Largo) does not make a very formidable opponent for 007 Referred to as number one in the SPECTRE chain of command, Largo resides in the Bahamas, and travels aboard his super yacht, the Flying Saucer Max Von Sydow becomes the fourth actor to appear as SPECTRE chief Ernst Stavro Blofeld, once more plotting to put the world at ransom Kim Basinger takes the part once owned by the lovely French actress Claudine Auger She is Domino, the mistress of Largo, who soon falls deeply in love with her rescuer Black actor Bernie Casey becomes the sixth actor to play CIA agent Felix Leiter after Jack Lord, Cec Linder, Rik Van Nutter, Norman Burton, and David Hedison...Edward Fox portrays the new, unsympathetic 'M.' Pamela Salem is the third actress to play Miss Moneypenny. Lois Maxwell was the first and Barbara Bouchet was the second.Valerie Leon is the sexy lady in the Bahamas who fished 007 out of the blue water and saved his life by making love to him in her own room Valerie was the Sardinian hotel receptionist in 'The Spy Who loved Me' when Bond and Anya arrive seeking StrombergPrunella Gee is Shrublands physical therapist Patricia Saskia Cohen Tanugi is Nicole, Bond's Secret Service contact in the South of France Gavan O'Herlihy is Jack Petachi, the U.S. Air Force communications officer who duplicates the President of the United States' 'eye print' and arms two cruise missiles with nuclear warheads Rowan Atkinson is the bumbling foreign officer Nigel Small-Fawcett; and Alec McCowen is Algernon, the armorer who provides 007 some formidable items If you like to see Connery playing a tense battle of wills, disguised as a masseur, attacked by robot-controlled sharks, giving away a considerable amount of money for a tango dance, thrown into a medieval dungeon, don't miss this second of only two "unofficial" James Bond films

MASTER PLAN: blackmail the world after stealing two nuclear warheads. Haven't we heard this plan before? Yes, in "Thunderball"(65). And, wow, two Bond films in the same year (the other was "Octopussy") - what can it mean? This is now a curiosity in the Bond film series (and not a part of the canon series), an anomaly, an oddity, a film stemming from the real-life battles between Eon Productions and their nemesis, producer McClory, who won rights to remake the earlier film. It probably would have been better if he'd succeeded earlier - say, around 1976 or so; as it is, Connery, who managed to equal Roger Moore's number of Bond portrayals with this film, is a full dozen years older since his previous Bonder "Diamonds Are Forever," and it shows. This isn't really a parody, like "Casino Royale" from 1967, though there are some too-cute moments, right up to the conclusion, a freeze-frame of Bond winking at us. There are also elements of a weird re-start, such as the first scene with Bond and M, who mentions he is new to the position, much like the Bond & female M scene in "GoldenEye." In this version, M (Fox) is still male, though he's a stuffy high-strung bureaucrat, opposed to double-0 agents, and looks a bit younger than Bond. This is a bit strange to take in, just on its own. Q is played by one of the best British actors, McCowen, so his scenes have a nice flair, though he has a silly name, Algernon.There's no teaser sequence or fancy credits such as we're used to - in fact, the beginning is so mundane, it's as if we're watching a typically substandard seventies thriller, with a wretched song and an awful score. Many of the early scenes are perfunctory; in other words, they're presented as the stuff we're used to seeing in a Bond film (Bond shoots bad guys, Bond is eyed by the ladies, Bond is menaced by sharks), but without the style and panache of the regular film series. As in "Thunderball," Bond is sent to a health spa early in the film. In an early action scene, he's attacked by a brawny assassin/henchman in the 'Oddjob/Jaws' mold who seems unstoppable, and things appear to be picking up, until he's stopped by a silly gag. I admit I did laugh when I saw this in the theater way back when - but I don't nowadays. I also get the impression of a conspiracy by the producer to throw in some banal stuff amid the standard spy action, not helped any by what seems like in-joking involving Bond's aging hero bit, including M's comically shrill disapproval. It mirrors the problem with Moore in his last couple of Bonders, where the audience is laughing at the hero - undesirable conditions for a Bonder. Things seem to improve again in the middle half, as much of the action here is dominated by the female villain, Blush (actress Carrera in her best role). She exults in her performance as the persistent killer with some odd sexual preoccupations, anticipating the much later lethal ladies such as Onatopp in "GoldenEye." But, the best performance is by Brandauer as the main villain, Largo - a much different Largo than the one in "Thunderball." He's almost on another, superior level from the rest of the cast, suggesting insanity better than most other Bond villains, somewhat effeminate in some of his gestures, but also magnetic when sparring with Bond, especially in their memorably electrifying video game duel, a bizarre yet entrancing confrontation. Von Sydow, always good, has a much briefer role as famous uber-villain Blofeld, staying behind the scenes for most of the movie. Basinger as Domino the Bond girl is, unfortunately, similar to many of the Bond girls of that period: nice to look at, but usually helpless and kind of an airhead, though she demonstrates fear convincingly. Connery, looking his age (early fifties), goes through the motions here, but hey, it's still Connery as Bond; he can do this kind of thing in his sleep (which he nearly does) and is always watchable, with that easy charisma. The pace is actually pretty good for awhile up until the climactic shoot-out, in spite of some cheap production values. The finale, underwater with Largo, is murky stuff, with no tension, as if the filmmakers just gave up by this point and wanted to get it over with. We kind of forget what the threat is about half-an-hour before the end. Oh, and, Atkinson is his small role is abominable, like nails on chalkboard. Connery would not return. Bond:7 Villain:9 Femme Fatales:5 Henchwoman/men:8 Leiter:6 Fights:5 Stunts/Chases:6 Gadgets:4 Auto:5 Locations:6 Pace:6 overall:6

Sean Connery returns as James Bond, in a movie remake of Thunderball. Here, mad man Maximilian Largo steals two American nuclear warheads and demands millions of dollars in ransom from the world leaders. As a result, MI6 reactivates their "00" agents and James Bond comes out of retirement to carry on the mission.Armed with secret weapons and an armor of one-liners, Connery still shines once again as the suave 007, though, he does look rather emotionless and mellow portraying his character at times. There is lesser action in this movie than in previous Bond films, but some of the the thrills are still a little entertaining, especially the part where Bond attempts to dispatch the femme fatale Fatima Blush (Barbara Carrera).Sorely missing is John Berry's iconic James Bond theme and score, and what we have instead is a very 80s-sounding soundtrack from Michel Legrand. The acting was just OK for the most part - Connery had some good chemistry with the Bond Girls, but much of the other cast members were forgettable. Max von Sydow gave a mediocre performance as Blofeld, Edward Fox gave a very overzealous and pompous portrayal of M and Rowan Atkinson gave a rather unfunny role as Small-Fawcett. Klaus Maria Brandauer gave a convincing villain in Maximilian Largo - slimy and sly, making you want to punch him in the face.The film its adventurous moments, but, it's not one of the best Bond movies out there - it's more like a stand alone action flick.Grade C+

Never Say Never Again got its title because Sean Connery had said in the 1970s (shortly after Diamonds Are Forever) that he would "never" do another Bond film. However, in 1983 he was persuaded to return to the role for a one-off special, a remake of his fourth entry Thunderball, and his wife rather humorously said to him that in the future he should make a point never to say never again. This film actually came out close to a Roger Moore entry in the series (Octopussy), and although Connery had more admirers as 007 than Moore, it was surprisingly Octopussy that scored a bigger box office hit.Connery's Bond is older and more vulnerable than we remember him. His boss, M, doesn't hold him in very high regard and actually suggests that he take some time off in a plush health spa. During his time here, Bond uncovers a strange plot and the further he delves into the mystery the more he discovers. It seems that his old adversaries SPECTRE, fronted by the nefarious Blofeld (Max Von Sydow) have stolen two nuclear warheads which they will detonate if they are not paid an extortionate ransom. Chief overseer of this hideous plan is Emile Largo (Klaus Maria Brandeur), and Bond pursues Largo around the globe in an attempt to stop him, visiting such places as Monte Carlo and North Africa during the course of the mission.The music by Michel Legrand is poor by series standards. It sounds rather similar to his music for the sleazy 1981 movie Your Ticket Is No Longer Valid, and is really ill-suited to this Bond production. However, in terms of villains, they've come with a couple of great ones for this film. Largo, as personified by Brandeur, is smooth but deadly, and hench-woman Fatima Blush (Barbara Carrera) is uncommonly disturbing. Rowan Atkinson also has a fairly good role as a dim-witted agent assigned to "help" Bond. The big action sequences are quite good, especially the horse chase around the North African sea-fortress and the motorbike chase, although some of the underwater moments are tough to understand because it's hard to figure out who is who behind the diving masks.

Yes, it's Sean Connery playing Bond again, looking more alive and into his part than any time since the first time they made this film, in 1965 when it was called "Thunderball". But the tongue is so firmly in cheek one wonders if Connery isn't employing a few observed tricks from his friend and more humorous successor, Roger Moore.Moore is my favorite Bond, but Connery makes a strong case for himself in this unusual outing. The only serious Bond film not made under the aegis of the classic Eon Bond series, "Never Say Never Again" is an irreverent return to the well. Soft on action, it's nevertheless strong on character and clever dialogue.Bond, it's made clear right away, is a man in disfavor. No matter how many times he has saved the world, his new boss thinks little of his fat lifestyle. "Too many free radicals, that's your problem...Caused by eating too much red meat, white bread, too many martinis." "Then I shall cut out the white bread, sir," Bond smartly replies.An early fight sequence in a spa represents the movie's high point action-wise, with Bond and an attacker fighting their way through a kitchen, a bedroom, and a laboratory before Bond finally douses his opponent, ironically with no small help from those free radicals. Humor is liberally applied in the film, rather more cleverly than most of Moore's outings, though Connery seems to be having more fun sending himself up as a result of Moore's less egotistic example.Was it because he was making a good chunk of the gross? Or was it working for less stingy producers? Whatever it is, the screenplay serves his laid-back style well, and the result is richer and more entertaining than Connery's prior two Eon Bond outings, "You Only Live Twice" and "Diamonds Are Forever".The 1980s were not a good decade for Bond, whether it was Connery, Moore, or Timothy Dalton. Leg warmers, video games, and ugly sports cars are all in evidence, and the Bianca Jagger sunglasses Klaus Maria Brandauer is seen wearing in his first scene do him no favors. Forget first impressions. Brandauer's role as the chief villain, Maximilian Largo, is one of the best in any Bond film, with Brandauer enjoyably playing up his character's menace and mania. At one point, he allows Bond free roam of his situation room, with a martini to boot, and his dancing eyes and mad, engaging grin make for compelling company throughout.The best thing in this film, other than Connery, are the Bond girls, shot with more attention to personality than normal in Bond films, a testament to cinematographer Douglas Slocombe and director Irvin Kirshner. Barbara Carrera was nominated for a Golden Globe for her role as the villainess Fatima Blush, every bit as crazy as Largo and even nicer to look at. She doesn't last the whole movie; you almost need her gone in order to focus on the others.Kim Basinger's breasts and buttocks should have had their own agents for the screen time they get in this film, but I'm not complaining. Basinger's a rare beauty who in this early role as Largo's mistress mixes incredible hotitude with a childlike vulnerability that brings out the Bond in me, and many others I suspect. (Her lips and cheekbones are pretty sweet, too.)It's not a well-constructed film. It's a knockoff of a better Bond movie with a sloppy storyline, a terrible score, and a flat ending. But it does have Connery, proving his was the definitive take on cinema's definitive secret agent, even if he steals a page or two from my 007, Mr. Moore. The end result is entertaining enough, so I'm not complaining.

In 1965 producer Kevin McLory -who owns a part of the Bond cinematic rights- associate with EON Productions (Harry Saltzman and Albert Broccoli) for making "Thunderball", the fourth film of the 007 franchise. The star is Sean Connery, of course.In 1982 McLory wins a legal battle and can produce an "independent" Bond film. "Never say never again" (NSNA) is one of the two "unofficial" 007 films made outside EON (the other is the 1967 comedy spoof "Casino Royale"). NSNA is a remake of "Thunderball" and stars the original Bond, Sean Connery -who comes back to the role after many years of absence.The film is released some months after "Octopussy" with Roger Moore, the 13th episode of the EON series. At the time press calls it "War of the Bonds"... Both films are a big success in 1983, even if "Octopussy" earns more money at the box office.NSNA is a luxurious film made by excellent technicians -director Irvin Kershner who led "The Empire strikes back", Douglas Slocombe -cinematographer of "Raiders of the lost Ark"-, and screenwriter Lorenzo Semple Jr -who wrote "The three days of the Condor"- among others...The cast is excellent with Connery, a then relatively unknown Kim Basinger, Barbara Carrera, Klaus Maria Brandauer, Max Von Sydow, Edward Fox...Although all that the film remains inferior to the original "Thunderball". It lacks many fundamental ingredients for being a real Bond movie: there's not the traditional gun barrel sequence, there's not the "James Bond theme", M and Q are not played by the traditional actors... It's a copyright reason: EON only is allowed to use these elements. Briefly, NSNA lacks the classic cinematic 007 atmosphere.On the other hand the film is exciting and enjoyable. Brandauer is a very good villain and the women (Basinger and Carrera) are sensual and gorgeous. But the main highlight is Sean Connery! He's once again wonderful in the role, he's older but looks fitter and nicer here than in "Diamonds are forever", his last performance in the role of the British super-spy before NSNA.

The final installment in Connery/Bond series finds 007 on a mission to thwart Spectre which has threatened to blow up cities if a ransom is not paid . James Bond (Sean Connery who shows his face clean-shaven and wearing a variety of grey and brown wigs) matches wits with a nasty , good-looking tycoon , Largo (Klaus Maria Brandauer) , who is holding the world nuclear hostage as part of a diabolical plan schemed by Espectre led by a sinister leader (Max Von Sydow) . As Emilio Largo , is a ruthless and flamboyant enforcer who has hatched a scheme against the North Atlantic Treaty powers . British send his "00" agent , James Bond , to recover the warheads before SPECTRE carries out its threat to detonate the devices on the UK and US mainlands . As the world is held hostage by the threat of a nuclear nightmare , Bond jumps into action , racing against the clock as the trail leads him to tropical Nassau . Later on , Bond facing off heavies and bedding a lot of pink and dust beauties (Barbara Carrera as Fatima Blush , Kim Basinger as Domino , Valerie Leon , among others) . Will 007 prevent the killing of millions of innocent victims?Connery returns to the world of Bond after 12 years , it results to be smooth in this peculiar remake of ¨Thunderball¨(1965) by Terence Young with Claudine Auger , Adolfo Celi , Luciana Paluzzi . The noisy action is staged with all the mechanical efficiency of the classic Bond pictures with a bit more bite . After Diamonds are forever (1971) Sean told her he'd never play James Bond again, there he was, playing James Bond again , her response was for him to "never say never again" ; however , for a big salary he accepted this film . Although Connery is back to recover two nuclear warheads stolen , purists will have qualms deeming this part of the official Bond series since longtime producers Albert ¨Cubby¨ Broccoli , Harry Saltzman , had nothing to do with this endeavor . This Bond film was not part of the franchise produced by these producers , but here Kevin McClory who was producer and co-writer of Thunderball (1965), won a legal battle against Ian Fleming to make his own Bond movie , the settlement stipulated that it had to effectively be a remake of Thunderball . Here James Bond/Connery bedding a variety of wonderful women , the bond girls are the followings : Kim Basinger as the beautiful heroine , Barbara Carrera is excellently cast as the nasty villainess and the Hammer-girl Valerie Leon . Bond/Connery is given hot competition in the acting department by Klaus Maria Brandauer who makes ¨Largo¨ a stunning , memorable smiling psychotic baddie from Sprectra criminal organization , replacing prior Adolfo Celi . Being Final James Bond film to feature Spectre until recent film Spectre (2015) . Support cast is frankly magnificent as Bernie Casey , Alec McCowen , charming Pamela Salem as Miss Moneypenny , Rowan Atkinson as Embassy official , Edward Fox , Gavan O'Herlihy , Ronald Pickup and brief acting by the busty Bond girl Valerie Leon as Lady in Bahamas .Colorful cinematography by Douglas Slocombe shot on several locations in Côte d'Azur, Antibes, Beaulieu-Sur-Mer, Alpes-Maritimes,France , Malta Nassau, New Providence Island, Bahamas , La Alcazaba , Almería, El Ejido, Almería, Andalucia, Spain . However , this ¨Never say never again¨ is hampered by an atrocious soundtrack by Michael Legrand . The motion picture was professionally directed by Irwin Kershener , but with no originality . The main theme that runs through many of his films is social alienation and human weaknesses - although his biggest commercial success was the science fiction blockbuster ¨Star Wars: Episodio V Empire strikes again¨ and made decent sequels as ¨Return a man called horse¨and ¨Robocop II¨. This is an acceptable and passable Bond movie but inferior to other entries . This monarch of mayhem and luxury strides easily back into his kingdom .

It also has one of the worst horse chase sequence accompanied by lousy music.I first saw this in the early 90s on a vhs.Revisited it recently.This is a remake of Thunderball (which is rated 4/10 by me).Connery returns as an aged n outta shape Bond for the seventh and final time, marking his return to the character 12 years after Diamonds Are Forever.Here Bond is tasked with tracking down missing weapons which leads Bond to the Bahamas where he crosses path with Maximillian Largo, SPECTRE's top agent.This time Ernst Stavro Blofeld is played by Max von Sydow n Largo by Klaus Maria Brandauer.This one has the lousiest pre credit scene and of the worst ending.There is nothing memorable or noteworthy in this film except for the two lovely babes.This time Bond faces Largo (without his iconic eye patch) and Blofeld is never shown face to face.An unfit n aged Bond is able to fight off Lippe, a 6ft 5 inches wrestler in a gym with one of the worst n despicable weapon, his own urine.Bond gets to cool off with the hottie Barbara Carrera (worst dressed in this movie, check out her black outfit). Barbara Carrera is amazingly hot in the nurse's uniform.Bond also gets to cool off with Prunella Gee, Kim Basinger n Valerie Leon.

I've always liked Sean Connery, but as James Bond I've always favored Roger Moore. Still it was Connery who set the Bond standard and while he had by 1983 established himself as something other than James Bond, the money must have been irresistible for him to make one more appearance as 007 and save the world from the evil designs of Spectre.And what designs they are in Never Say Never Again. SPECTRE with the help of a foolish young Air Force officer who happens to be Kim Bassinger's brother stole two nuclear missiles during a war games exercise and now SPECTRE headed by Blofeld, played here by Max Von Sydow is threatening blackmail of the world.Von Sydow's operations guy is Klaus Maria Brandauer who is also courting Bassinger and is a bit on the crazy side. And he's got a female assassin working for him in Barbara Carrera who makes Angelina Jolie as Nora Croft look like Mrs. Butterworth.But before Sean Connery can even get started he's got to deal with a new 'M' running things at British Intelligence. Edward Fox thinks Connery is old fashioned in his methods and costs the British taxpayers too much money with his violent ways. I really did enjoy Fox's performance, he's like the great grandson of Colonel Blimp.I also enjoyed Carrera, she's something to look at and quite resourceful in her methods. When she's scuba diving with Connery in the Bahamas, note how she puts Mr. Shark on 007's case.Will Connery do James Bond again? He was widely quoted as saying who would they cast him as at this point, Roger Moore's father? But I think Connery would still be formidable in a wheelchair.

I am a huge Bond fan and Sean Connery is also my favourite Bond. Now when I first saw this film I was much younger and probably didn't notice most of it's faults (because it had Sean Connery, it must be good) But now I've watched it a 3rd time, I now realise Never Say Never Again is probably one of the worst films I've ever seen. I couldn't possibly watch it in one sitting as I'd be on the brink of suicide by the final scene.Yes, there are some highlights, the opening sequence is exciting but it is ruined by the horrendous theme tune that's played over the top of it. There is also an abundance of good dialogue (Fatima: Oh, I got you all wet; Bond: Yes, but my martini's still dry) and some interesting locations but they are sadly, wasted. Bond visits two of the most beautiful locations in the world, The Bahamas and the French Riviera and yet we see about 60 seconds of them on-screen before he's shipped off to somewhere else.For most of the film there is hardly any reference to the actual plot (the stolen nuclear devices) at all, it seems as if Bond treats his 'mission' as a holiday where he can bed as many women as possible (4 on this occasion). The action sequences are incredibly boring and predicable, and the underwater shots lack any imagination or flair. Its hard to believe that this was directed by Irvin Kershner, who was responsible for the superb 'Empire Strikes Back'.As for the characters, if you can call them that, they are probably the most boring and 1-dimensional of any bond film. The villain is almost non-existent, Kim Basinger is the most useless Bond girl to date (including Mary goodnight) and serves no purpose in the story at all. The (attempt at a) femme fatale, Fatima Blush is also truly dire. An awful character played by an equally awful actress, the adolescent producers obviously think they can make her 'sexy' by having her keep snakes in her car, heroin needles in her garter, and have her prance about in leather trousers and nurse's outfits whilst cackling like an old hag.NSNA looks terribly dated, and it is only 23 years old. The set pieces are poorly-thought out and look cheap (probably because most of the films budget was spent on getting Connery back) The majority of the script is dull and clichéd and the entire film looks like it was edited in about 5 minutes. And when the film finally reaches a climax, it refuses to end. There is still about another 20 minutes of tedium before it slowly comes to a halt. An incredibly boring and pointless film, even the worst movies in the official series (golden gun and die another day) are more entertaining than this. It's no surprise Sean Connery refuses to watch the Bond films, this wasn't exactly a high-point in his career.

Never Say Never Again (1983) is an unofficial James Bond film.It's a remake of Thunderball (1965).They both have Sean Connery as the super agent 007 James Bond.That's right, Connery returned one more time to the role that made him world famous.SPECTRE is causing trouble again with his nuclear and Mr. Bond is needed again.Irvin Kershner is the director of the movie.Max von Sydow plays the super villain with his white cat.Klaus Maria Brandauer is the crook Maximilian Largo.Kim Basinger is his girl Domino Petachi.When she meets Bond she won't be Largo's girl for long.Edward Fox plays M.Pamela Salem is Miss Moneypenny.Alec McCowen is Q.For me it's a little weird to see someone else than Desmond Llewelyn playing that character.Then there's also Rowan Atkinson playing Nigel Small-Fawcett.Mr.Atkinson is best known of course as Mr.Bean.This movie is better than most give credit for.There are many great scenes.It's enjoyable to watch Bond give a massage to Kim Basinger.And the kid in me always enjoys a good chase scene.This has got one with James on a motorcycle.There's also some under water action.So I enjoyed this movie.Let's hope Connery ends his retirement and returns for Bond's role one more time.

When two nuclear warheads are stolen by the terrorist organisation S.P.E.C.T.R.E., British secret agent 007 is brought back to active service to trace the missing weapons and prevent a global catastrophe.Despite being an unofficial James Bond film (it wasn't made by the usual MGM-UA/Eon franchise and is essentially a remake of 1965's Thunderball), this is a rather good one. Producer Kevin McClory took advantage of the fact that he owned the copyright on one of Ian Fleming's novels, persuaded Connery to return for one last hurrah as the superstar spy, assembled a great crew and turned in a first rate action adventure movie. All the proper Bond elements are here - international intrigue, glamorous locales (it was shot mostly in the Bahamas and Monaco), sexy women, villainous cabals, groovy gadgets and non-stop thrills. There are at least five standout sequences - a sprawling fistfight in a health farm, an eye-popping shark attack scene (shot by Ricou Browning, the Creature From The Black Lagoon himself), a classic Bond versus Villain confrontation showdown involving an electrified video game, a terrific chase with Connery on a Yamaha 650 turbo motorbike pursuing Carrera through the backstreets of Monte Carlo, and a great final shootout in a subterranean Islamic cavern. After a twelve-year hiatus, Connery stepped back into his signature role with apparently effortless ease and knocks off both the suave action and the libidinous comedy with aplomb. The rest of the cast all get into the larger-than-life sensibility with fine performances (except for Fox, who is terrible), but extra special plaudits must go to Nicaraguan actress Carrera as the drop-dead-gorgeous, mad-as-a-march-hare, fabulously villainous assassin Fatima Blush; she kills people, she drives cars fast, she kisses snakes, she dresses up in nurses' outfits, she blows things up, she turns waterskiing into an erotic art form and she's hilarious all the while. I think she gets my vote for best Bond Girl of all time (although Caroline Munro in The Spy Who Loved Me and Famke Janssen in Goldeneye come close). Lorenzo Semple Jr's script is a tight, thrill-a-minute treat, slamming along and pushing all the right buttons, and is backed up by sensational stuntwork, great sets and a brilliant cast. Perhaps the only thing lacking is a really good score - Michel Legrand's music is fine, but lacks the epic bombastic quality of one of John Barry's finer efforts. Aside from this minor quibble though, this is slam-bang entertainment and a must-see for all James Bond addicts.

This is a terribly uninteresting movie and it's amazing that after a dozen year absence as Bond, Sean Connery would pick THIS picture for a comeback. They must have offered him TONS of $$--no other explanation makes sense. The biggest problem is that instead of creating a movie for Connery, they just chose to re-make one of Connery's previous Bond films! Why not something new instead of a second-rate remake of a film he already did?! Well, it turns out the studio could NOT get the rights to Bond, though, because of a loophole, they could legally re-make Thunderball! This is a rotten excuse to make the film.Apart from the beautiful Kim Basinger, there is nothing about this movie that makes it better than the original (THUNDERBALL)--in fact, the original is so much better. Because of this, it seems like the makers of the film had contempt for the audience--they didn't even bother giving them something new! Particularly uninteresting is the character played by Barbara Carrera, though Klaus Maria Brandaur isn't much of a villain as well.My biggest feeling is WHY--Why was this film made in the first place?!

'14th' Bond movie (unofficial)The Sean Connery movies in the Bond series always seemed to have the attitude that only Connery was the 'real' Bond. That's why after the greatest Bond movie of them all ("On her majesty's secret service" with George Lazenby as James Bond), the next movie - starring Connery, again - seemed to pretend that Lazenby never happened. And so it is with this movie...it's like Roger Moore never happened and nor will he. The narrative elements concluded by Moore (in, say, "For your eyes only") are ignored. For this reason the movie comes across to me as a one off Bond movie...I imagine that the novels always existed, but no movie had ever been made from them. "Never say die" seems like a "What if?" story. I.e. Presuming knowledge of the existence of the novels, the movie imagines what happens to Bond near the end of his professional career. Of course, in some ways this movie is a remake of Connery's earlier "Thunderball" movie. Not exactly sure of the legal background to this movie, but I'm guessing that all the elements that were mostly author's Ian Fleming's have been removed and they've worked and reworked the elements that belong to the screenwriter of "Thunderball". It works. All those dull elements of "Thunderball" are gone...the underwater travelogue which just goes on and on. And on. Gone. Phew.Exotic locations: The Bahamas, Casino Royale in Monte CarloPlot: MI6 is underfunded and under-appreciated by the British Government. Bond is now limited to training the new recruits to the spying game...and playing war games instead of doing actual spy work. His direct superior, "M", has little time for the "00s" and lets him know it. When evil organisation "S. P. E. C. T. R. E" steals two nuclear warheads, Bond just may get back on to active duty as a "00" agent.Franchise clichés:Pre title sequence - No. This movie faced legal challenges as Roger Moore was the encumbent James Bond. Moore's Bond movie - Octopussy - was in direct competition with this Connery movie and was released shortly before it. For this reason you don't the signature 'gun barrel' scene. Instead you get a 'flyscreen' effect with "007" wallpapering the screen. You also don't get Monty Norman's famous Bond theme music.Theme song - Still part of this movie. It's "Never say never again" and it's not bad. For the first time, I think, the singer doesn't credited at the start of the movie. You have to read the end credits for that...sung by Lani Hall and written by Heb Alpert. Sergio Mendez produced it. Song has a nice jazzy cocktail lounge vibe to it. Herb Alpert also plays the trumpet for this song...gives himself a solo to boot!Q - Yes...BUT, it's a new guy..."Algernon". He has a touch of the Michael Caines to him. After the low point in the Bond and Q relationship in "Octopussy", it's quite a relief to see them chummy here. He has the line to Bond which I must have remembered from the promotional ad of "I hope we are going to have some gratuitous sex and violence". Bond misses the obvious rejoinder...something like "You must buy me dinner first!".M - Yes...BUT, again, it's a new guy. This M is a bit of a pompous arse and I really didn't enjoy being in his company throughout this movie.Moneypenny - Yes...but...you know the drill. Presumably there would have been legal problems if they tried to recruit the original actors who played these characters or if they had the same characters...explaining why M and Q are not only played by different actors in this movie, but are different people too.Silly female character names - Nigel Small-Fawcett. Played by Rowan Atkinson for comedic relief. Sorry, that's the only name that stuck out...good to see men being the butt of these jokes for once though! Misogyny/Wine snobbery/End teaser - A "no" to all these usual elements, I think...nothing obvious, at least.Watch for:* homing sharks! * Kim Bassinger's character's reaction after a massage...nice and subtle.* Bond smoking a cigar.* Ah...I knew there was a Bond movie where I saw a spittle bridge between two characters that were kissing...it's THIS movie! * an old Connery/Bond getting the kind of attention from beautiful young women that just doesn't seem right! * a Casino Royale full of arcade video games! Really? And Largo's inscrutable self-made video game...honestly, he should win every time just by virtue of being able to make heads or tails of it! * one reason to treat this movie as a one off...just check out Felix Leiter! Did he spend too long in the solarium? * some nice jokes...M mentioning "free radicals" and Moneypenny's reaction to Bond's line on this. As well as a funny scene I remembered the punch line to all these years later...where Bond has to give a urine sample to a nurse. Good-o! * end credit "Thank "A. K."...presumably Arab brazilianaire Adnan Khashoggi.* Micheline Connery getting a credit for the title "Never say never again". Just looked her up on Wikipedia...Sean's wife.* Talia Shire Schwartzman getting an end credit too. Yes. "Adrian!".* The first Bond movie not to have been filmed at famous Pinewood studios? * This movie has different producers to the official Bond movies and it's based on an original story by McClory, Whittingham and Fleming.Note to self: - Domino mouths what to Bond after a shower and when M is on the phone? - ALCMs? - "Mais doucement" and "ciaou bello"...mean? - Schubert's "The trout" is played here, I think. Significance? Conclusion...If you consider Sean Connery to the ONLY Bond, then this is a decent send off for him...not as silly as "Diamonds are forever". You just have to imagine that all those movies without Connery never existed. It's 'closure' to Connery's Bond.

"Never Say Never Again", as everyone knows by now, was the second Bond film to be released in 1983, and was nearly as big a hit as "Octopussy" was (that film was still playing in some theaters when "Never Say Never Again" was released). Lacking the distinctive gun-barrel opening and famous Bond theme among other distinctive features of the EON franchise films, this lacks not only the feel of the EON Bond series, but of Fleming's work, leaving a seriously bloated mess of an American action thriller which happens to feature Bond as the lead character. Why? That's the first question anybody should be asking about this film. A cynic (which I probably qualify as) would say 'for the cash', others might say it was just to get Connery back as Bond and give him a proper goodbye. Some might say it was in retaliation to the direction the Moore films were headed in, although "For Your Eyes Only" is a far superior and far less bloated film than this, so that argument doesn't quite work.Of course, there's a lot to dislike here. Connery has moments of inspiration where he slips right back into character, but for most of the film he just looks really old and slightly ridiculous, which fits the plot but doesn't make his performance any less tired. Still, I'd argue that this is a better send-off for him as Bond than "Diamonds are Forever". Kim Basinger is a terrible Bond girl, and as much as I like Rowan Atkinson he shouldn't be anywhere near a Bond film. In addition, the villains here fall flat as well. That said, "Never Say Never Again" is not a film I can hate, even if I wanted to (and I never want to hate anything), simply because little of it comes off as especially bad yet all of it comes off as flat, bland, and uninspired, and far, far too American for a Bond film. It's just sort of... there being the bloated, over-long, but not terrible film it is. I don't count it as a 'Bond film', as it doesn't feel remotely like one, but even just as an action thriller it doesn't quite work.5/10

This remake of 'Thunderball' sees Sean Connery return to the role that made him famous twelve years after his previous Bond film. There are some changes in this edition to update it from the sixties to the eighties; most notably rather than seizing control of a Vulcan bomber SPECTRE gets an agent, Jack Petachi, to switch the practice warheads in two cruise missiles to live nuclear weapons which SPECTRE member Maximilian Largo takes control of then attempts to blackmail the world. As chance would have it Bond was being treated as the same clinic as Petachi; this is the clue he needs to investigate the apparently clean Largo on a trail that leads from The Bahamas to the South of France to North Africa.This might be an 'unofficial' Bond film but it is still pretty good and apart from missing famous James Bond Theme and opening you could be excused for thinking this was part of the official series. Connery managed well in the roll despite being rather old for an action hero; he might not be as tough as in his earlier films but he still has a screen presence. The film's real weakness is that it compares poorly with Thunderball and in some ways seems more dated than original despite being made nearly twenty years later... the video game sequence suffers particularly in this regard. Other flaws include a sound track that is just not-Bond and a villain who seems too petty for a member of SPECTRE. All Bond films feature a variety of attractive women and this one is no exception; most notable are Barbara Carrera who plays psychotic SPECTRE agent Fatima Blush and Kim Basinger who plays Domino; Petachi's sister and Largo's lover; the former is memorably for her over the top performance as she prepares to dispatch Bond but the latter is a fairly forgettable character.Over all I'd say this is a decent film that certainly shouldn't be avoided by Bond purists; just don't expect anything as good as Thundball.

As a only a casual Bond fan I wasn't put off by the word "remake" because, after all, aren't all Bonds a form of remake? Certainly up to this point in time anyway! Connery has got himself down the gym for this one, but looks every one of his fifty plus years and then some. Thankfully the stuntmen do most of the work meaning a lot of the time he is wearing a helmet, headscarf, wet-suit or photographed from an obscure angle. Can always tell though - the stunt-man's hair moves while Connery's doesn't.(It is said that the original script included a scene where Bond puts the toupee on!) Listen you know the score or you are very young indeed. Man wants to take over the world, the sexy girl (or two) comes along before they face the ticking bomb. Kim Bassinger looks fabulous with a fantastic figure, but what shocking dancer! Gets her in to a leotard (and I am not complaining), but what a baby elephant.Can't even do a 360 turn! As per usual she looks vaguely disinterested in anything and everything - but there was an Oscar in it down the road so keep going darling! The logic of Bond is that he is sometimes very smart (knows how to operate secret equipment with no training!) and other times very stupid. Gets captured very easily, indeed doesn't seem to mind too much when he does. Usually there is a nice meal in it for him.Baddie No.1 Klaus Maria Brandauer isn't too shabby and plays the psychopathy quite well. Practicing for a better movie with a smaller paycheck maybe? Barbara Carrera is actually quite good, an assassin with bad taste in fashion, but a nice looking girl who looks like she can do mean. Even though Bond never cares who gets killed - as long as it is not him - so why is she bothering? Box office wise didn't do as well as the other "official" Bond of the day (Octopussy) and you can see why. Still, good enough for Sunday afternoon. As long as it is raining and there doesn't seem a break in sight...

This film is supose to be so bad, I never rented it for years.  I sure was wrong, I gave it a 6, when I heard this movie was a 3.  James Bond comming out of traing to the live field is a ok concept.  The film is on a lower budget, but they did well with what they have.  This film shows how good of an actor Sean Connery is.  Bronson with three time the budget never gets across in the mannor, or humor which Connery can. Connery makes this movie worth watching he adds so much to the scenes; when he gets into a fight he gives it Bond magic.  Connery delivers a one liner in a James Bond way. He maybe old, but there was still some gas in the tank.

As a lifelong Bond enthusiast, I saw this film at the cinema when it came out and so judged it from a contemporary view and again on a recent re-watching. It contains a few of the things that make a good Bond film and a lot more that make the weaker British films of the 70's/80's. Unfortunately, this gives the finished result a very unsatisfying tone.The cast are fine in doing well what they're given to do. I wish Edward Fox wasn't given M to play as shouting and hollering at his most successful agent, as if cantankerousness alone indicates a high standard of leader. The music drags the mood down and that's an error of commissioning a composer, not of the composer. The computer game sequence is a lame attempt to put the then-phenomenon of computer graphics into a serious context. But the audience isn't playing the game so they can't feel the player's drama. The list of such defects is too long.I wanted this to be just a satisfactory film if it couldn't be a good film. A lot of Bond films are flawed, particularly Moore's of that era, so there's a lot of give and take available. This just need to take too much suspension of belief for me, not in the story but in the film- making. If you get a different experience from watching it, that's great but I don't expect you to.

Whilst the good old producer Albert R. Broccoli was carelessly finalizing the thirteenth official Bond movie "Octopussy", together with regular director John Glen and star Roger Moore, the frustrated writer/producer Kevin McClory thought it would be a funny joke to release an unofficial Bond flick with the original hero Sean Connery and – God forbid – an American (!) director by the name of Irvin Kershner. A lot of people openly wonder why "Never Say Never Again" ever got made. Well, I think this movie has three main reasons for existing. Number one: to sooth McClory's ego (something with a lingering lawsuit). Number two: to boost Sean Connery's popularity and bank account during a dip in his career. And number three: to mess with the heads of die-hard 007 fans, since this episode is never included in fancy collector box-set editions and has to be purchased separately! Is this one of the most redundant movies in cinematic history? Yes, most definitely! Is it worth tracking down in case you're a fan of the series or action/adventurous movies in general? Yes, it certainly is! "Never Say Never Again" is a reshape of the fourth official Bond movie "Thunderball", which also starred Connery. "Thunderball" coincidentally also just happens to be Bond movie I watched most recently, so it was very easy to compare them. Both films are really quite identical and the only significant difference is that 007 is twenty years older and about to enjoy his retirement. The rest is pure repeat. The multi-millionaire SPECTRE agent Largo developed a very ingenious plan to steal two nuclear warheads and holds the world at ransom by threatening to detonate them. James Bond discovers the scheme by chance, when he's in a fancy health spa and follows Largo to the Bahama's. By seducing Largo's girlfriend Domino Petachi, who still doesn't know that Largo abused and killed her brother, 007 hopes to discover where the warheads are located. The return of Sean Connery as the heroic special agent is undoubtedly the biggest trump of the film, but I usually always classify my Bond favorites based on the entertainment value of the villains. Max von Sydow makes a very promising Ernst Stavro Blofeld, but unfortunately his role is little more than a cameo. Klaus Maria Brandauer is decent but can't hold a candle to Adolfo Celi who played the role in "Thunderball". Most entertaining is Barbara Carrera as Bond's iron female opponent Fatima, who's as sexy and deadly as Luciana Paluzzi was in the original. I think "Never Say Never Again" is best enjoyed as a parody, since many aspects of the film are clearly intended to be ambiguous and humorous, like the meaning of the title itself (referring to the fact that Connery himself said that he would never play James Bond again after "Diamond are Forever") and the presence of Rowan Atkinson as a clumsy British ambassador.

When Sean Connery left the Bond franchise after "You Only Live Twice" he was afraid of being type-casted as James Bond. He returned for "Diamonds Are Forever" and his demanding salary (which was unheard of at the time) forced Eon to cutback on special effects, making it a relatively weak movie.Connery left once again and went off to try and write his own Bond movies with Kevin McClory (Co-Writer of "Thunderball") but United Artist put a stop to that through legal battles. "Never Say Never Again" was the product of an early battle between Eon Productions and McClory. McClory would be allowed to make his own version ten years after the release of "Thunderball" and Connery, who didn't want to be type-casted as 007, came back to play 007 in this movie.After watching "Never Say Never Again," I can see why Eon had a dispute with Kevin McClory. The script is weak and choppy, making for a "Quantum of Solace" style flow to the movie. The less than exciting fight at the beginning is almost a disgrace to Connery's official Bond movies. Also, the quirky styling of Mr. Bean look alike Nigel, makes the movie more comical than the Roger Moore movies, which also detracted from the Bond franchise.This movie is on par with the worst of the Brosnan Movies. "Die Another Day" specifically and is better off forgotten. The stunts are just as ridiculous and the plot is a bit forced with characters being introduced in the most ridiculous ways (i.e. jet skiing off the water and into Bond's arms.)Perhaps it's because, having read the Bond novels, I find Daniel Craig to be the most accurate Bond, with Dalton and Lazenby close behind. You can get by without seeing "Never Say Never Again."

"Empire Strikes Back" director Irvin Kershner's "Never Say Never Again," a remake of the 1965 James Bond movie "Thunderball," doesn't surpasses the Terence Young original, but this non-Harry Saltzman & Albert R. Broccoli film is well worth watching if you call yourself a 007 aficionado. Nevertheless, despite its shortage of clever gadgets and the lack of a vibrant musical score, "Never Say Never Again" rates as an above-average, suspenseful doomsday thriller with top-flight performances by a seasoned cast including Sean Connery, Kim Basinger, Klaus Maria Brandauer, Max Von Sydow, Barbara Carrera, Edward Fox, Bernie Casey, Alec McCowen, and Rowan Atkinson. The film bristles with surprises galore from the invigorating title credits sequence throughout its generally exciting but lengthy 134 minutes. Unlike the franchise James Bond sagas with their breath-taking moments of spectacle, "Never Say Never Again" provides few of these scenes because of its prohibitive budget. Indeed, the film features only three gadgets: an explosive ball-point pen, a wristwatch with a laser, and a souped-up motorcycle. Aside from the flavorful Lani Hall opening theme song, "Ice Station Zebra" composer Michel Legrand's orchestral music score leaves much to be desired. Legrand replicates none of those snappy, jazz cues that made John Barry's music for the regular Bond franchise so memorable. All in all, "Never Say Never Again" seems to fit more into the first two Bond movies—"Dr. No" and "From Russia With Love"—and "On Her Majesty's Secret Service" in terms of its more down to earth approach to the subject matter."Never Say Never Again" presents Sean Connery's James Bond as an older 007 who has seen his day and has been taken off active service to teach. Ironically, Roger Moore was a year older than Connery and Moore's Bond movies treated 007 as an active, young guy. Sean Connery seems to be responsible for making 007 a more mature secret agent and a number of changes take place in the Lorenzo Semple screenplay that emphasize Bond's age. Initially, Connery had lobbied to play Bond without a hairpiece, but mercifully wiser minds prevailed and Connery sports a hairpiece. He looks tanned and fit and appears in better condition than he did twelve years earlier when he was rushed into "Diamonds Are Forever" at the last moment to replace John Gavin. Connery had been working on another movie and had gained weight for the role that he was unable to remove in time for "Diamonds Are Forever." At 52, Connery still has a youthful vigor here despite the contrived demands of the script.The action unfolds with 007 single-handedly trying to rescue a kidnapped woman on a remote desert island. He dispatches several guards armed with machine guns and frees the woman, only to have her stab him with a knife in the side when he isn't looking. It seems that this entire sequence was an exercise designed by M (Edward Fox of "Day of the Jackal") to test Bond's ability. The new M doesn't share his predecessor's use of field agents. M decides that Bond needs to clean out his system of all 'free radicals' and has 007 packed off to Shrublands. While at the country clinic, Bond notices suspicious activity between a nurse and a patient and gets noticed watching them. The nurse is none other than SPECTRE assassin Fatima Blush (Barbara Carrera of "The Island of Dr. Moreau") and she is in charge of making sure that nobody sees USAF officer Jack Petachi (Gavan O'Herlihy of "Superman 3"). Petachi is part of a SPECTRE plan by millionaire businessman Maximilian Largo (Klaus Maria Brandauer of "Out of Africa") to black the world powers by stealing two nuclear warheads. The villains implant a duplicate eyeball into Captain Petachi who has access to the highly sophisticated computers and can order the arming of weapons. After he steals the weapons for SPECTRE, Fatima Blush runs him off the road by tossing her pet snake in his lap and then attaches an explosive to his wrecked car and blows him up. Indeed, the first part of "Never Say Never Again," apart from the SPECTRE planning conference, belong to Fatima as she supervises Petachi's stay at the clinic and then repeatedly tries to kill Bond, one at sea with sharks and later in a motel suite with an explosives device.Eventually, Bond meets the beautiful blond Domino (Kim Basinger of "Mother Lode") and sneaks into Largo's charity banquet at a Monte Carlo casino where the two face off in an elaborate video game called 'Domination' to see who will rule the world. Bond bests him and Largo hates him doubly now because 007 is his only rival to Domino and a thorn in his side that not even Fatima seems to be able to remove. Bond and Fatima have it out after a motorcycle chase when he returns the favor and blows her up. Their earlier encounter in the Bahamas when she attached a device to lure a shark after him is pretty lame. Like in the original "Thunderball," the villains recover the hijacked nuclear warheads at sea, but just the warheads themselves.Bond flies to the Bahamas where he meets his diplomatic liaison, Nigel Small-Fawcett (no lesser than Rowan Atkinson of "Mr. Bean" fame, who is worried that Bond may kill somebody and ruin the island paradise. Of course, Nigel Small-Fawcett serves as the film's source of comic relief. The C.I.A. sends Felix Leiter (Bernie Casey of "Guns of the Magnificent Seven") to back up Bond. This is the first time that an African-American portrayed Leiter. Bond encounters his share of problems, involving saving Domino from Arab slavers, while Leiter and he save the world. "Never Say Never Again" is a richly respectable James Bond thriller with many neat touches, but it never generates the air of danger that the franchise Bond films have. Indeed, "Never Say Never Again" looks like a dignified Masterpiece Theatre take on 007.

"Connery is back" was the advertising posters for this James Bond film. Being released the same year as Octopussy starring Roger Moore, this one titled Never Say Never Again was clearly made outside Pinewood Studios and was never an official 007 film but a remake of Thunderball. Connery delivers a usually convincing performance as Bond but was looking older at 53, the film isn't always good. It's almost all-cast with lots of womanizing in evidence that makes him extremely seedy and neither does he raise much suspicion.
The reason why Connery made this one was to stick the guns on Albert R Broccoli. As a result, Connery felt that Broccoli diid a very poor job with Diamonds Are Forever and why Broccoli choosed to leave out some of the important editing work is beyond. There are some plus points about Never Say Never Again particularly the Pat Roach scene and the topical seaside settings but on the other hand it's alrightish.

This film followed the same plot as "Thunderball", so it was basically a remake. The opening sequence was ludicrous, as James Bond was revealed to have been training for a commando raid instead of actually accomplishing one. The entire movie, when compared with "Thunderball", seemed very cheesy in every regard. "Thunderball" was possibly the best Bond flick . It seemed to have a big budget, was very well cast, and was well-paced. "Never Say Never Again" was lacking in each of these aspects. Even James Bond's jet pack seemed like a bargain basement model when compared to the one he wore in "Thunderball", filmed nearly twenty years earlier.This film was a horrible mess from beginning to end. Connery at 52 looked and acted like a man of 65. Kim Bassinger seemed to be on antidepressants; very heavily medicated. Barbara Carrera seemed to have zero sex appeal - just a big-mouthed, crabby slut. The part where the "Flying Saucer" (what a dumb name for a yacht, compared to the "Disco Volante" of "Thunderball) took off from the Caribbean to the Middle East was so dumb. Bond using a wristwatch laser to free himself from handcuffs was so juvenile. Above all, hot young women swooning over sixtyish-looking Connery was ridiculous. Yeah, I could see them being hot for him in 1965 when he was a stud, but he looks like the type of old geezer none of these women would even notice. The soundtrack sounded like music from a fashion show, rather than the James Bond themes we're used to. I will say that Bernie Casey was good as Felix Leiter. I will forever wonder how a James Bond flick could be such a laughably hideous piece of trash.