For the past two decades now, Michael Bay has been known littering his films with countless explosions, and with this heavy special effects, garners wide success at the box office. Here, Michael Bay steps into the war genre with this intense, dramatic retelling of the fateful event that pulled America into World War II in the 1941. Set near the dawn of World War II, Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett play Rafe McCawley and Danny Walker, two Airforce soldiers who have been best friends since childhood. As they grow up, they are caught in a love triangle when they both fall in love with beautiful nurse named Evelyn (played by Kate Beckinsale). Things get pretty complicated when Danny and Evelyn are transferred to Pearl Harbor where Rafe returns from fighting overseas in Great Britain to find the two are in a relationship. Next morning, December 7, Danny and Rafe wake up to find hundreds of Japanese fighter pilots dropping bombs on Pearl Harbor. The two friends arm themselves with the F-51s in attempt to fight off against the Japanese fleet. With the U.S naval base devastated and thousands of innocent lives lost, the U.S declares war against war. From there on, Dafe and Rafe and their army lead by Lieutenant Colonol James Dolittle (played by Alec Baldwin) prepare for a fight against Japan to overcome their country's catastrophic defeat. This film also features Cuba Gooding Jr. who plays Captain Dorie Miller, the first African- American in history to be awarded the U.S Navy Cross.The bombing of Pearl Harbor was one of the most shocking moments in the history of America, and it makes interesting subject matter to be told on on screen. Although this movie does manage to paint the horrors that took place during that fateful day, this film does suffer from some flaws that director Michael Bay is often known. Now with a war movie being directed by Bay, audience should go into this movie expecting abundance of explosions and this film plenty of these during the 40-minute action sequences that takes place during the attack on Pearl Harbor. The entire scene is very well done and the special effects are great. The scene really captures the grim details of what the civilians of Pearl Harbor suffered through as we watch countless of people killed from gunfire and drowning, as well as others who suffer some gruesome injuries. This entire scene is quite difficult to watch and it really pulls at your heart strings. Now here is where the film falters. Along with the whole Japanese attack and its aftermath, audiences are treated with a romantic subplot involving Josh Hartnett, Ben Affleck, and Kate Beckinsale that takes up a good portion of the film. What we get from this is poor acting and cheesy dialogue between Affleck and Beckinsale, including a line "I love you so much it hurts", a line that is highly laughable and far too corny, especially when dealing with a war flick. The whole love story is not terrible, but definitely takes more than what is needed of the film. With the whole story, the film ends up running 183 minutes. Pearl Harbor is certainly not one of the best war movies in Hollywood and definitely not the best of what Michael Bay has to offer. I feel that this could have done better if it was handled someone like Steven Spielberg who has been masterful with the World War II genre (Saving Private Ryan, Schindler's List). Overall, this is film is not terrible. Despite some of its flaws, it still works and is entertaining to watch.

About one third of the way through this mess, my daughter left her friends and came to me for some money to go to the concession stand. I asked her if they were selling pillows there. This is one of the longest movies I have ever sat through (at least that's what my back tells me). It has some of the worst writing I have ever heard. The set-up and the romantic intrigues are predictable and uninteresting. There is absolutely no suspense. The whole plot is contrived. Oh, yes, there is an endless attack by the Japanese, but by the time it happened, my mind was wandering. As far as those tragic lovers, I thought I was watching a bunch of eighth grade girls and boys ticked off because she said he said she said, whatever!! Then, of course, we have Jimmy Doolittle, going on his raid to make up for what those guys did to us. What a slap in the face to the real event. How can a director with 135 million dollars make the attack on Pearl Harbor dull. Yes, it probably looked like that. Those bombers and fighters moving clandestinely in on the island--destroying the fleet with no conscience. What about a script? What about the building of some sort of momentum? How about focusing on the realistic politics of the time and seeing the world from both sides. I was so disappointed in this film. People wonder why it's so expensive to go to the movies these days. It's because the studios are footing the bill for this kind of bilge!

I've never written a review before but after seen how many people are saying this film I thought I better.
I actually think the film was great the main premise of the film which I feel most people have completely missed is a bond between two guys that is as strong as a brotherhood hood. The alpha one who has the confidence to take over the world and the quiter one both who would die for each other in an instance. And maybe it was just me but I really did feel the emotions that they feel throughout the film. It seems like a lot of people hate the film so maybe I'm missing something but i think its a great film. The film is not totally accurate but films don't need to be and I film is long which is the reason I suspect it gets so much hate.

SpoilersTo borrow and paraphrase from that great orator and writer, Winston Churchill, 'Never in the annals of human endeavor have so many witnessed the butchering of history by so few.'I remember a story on a national morning TV news program that was a major promotion for the debut of this huge waste of celluloid. This interview/promotion took place aboard the aircraft carrier that's on permanent display in New York harbor. The major male stars, Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett, along with Producer Jerry Bruckheimer were interviewed by one of the hosts of this TV morning news show. In this interview, all three claimed that they enjoyed talking to veterans and listening to their stories. Well, I don't think they were paying much attention to those vets.Or at least they decided to ignore reality when it interfered with their script!Some historical facts that got in the way of Bruckheimer's blockbuster: It doesn't matter how simple WWII aircraft are compared to today's jets. Ask any pilot and he/she can tell you that you just don't go from flying American P-40 fighters one day, go to England and jump into the cockpit of a British Spitfire fighter and start shooting down HIGHLY EXPERIENCED, COMBAT VETERAN German PILOTS the next! (I don't care that even a blind pig can find the occasional acorn!) Each aircraft's handling qualities, e.g., speed, max altitude, rate of climb, rate of dive, turning, etc., are different. In other words, a pilot has to be TRAINED on that aircraft! To ask us to believe that Affleck's character, who hadn't seen REAL aerial combat prior to England, can shoot down experienced German fighter pilots the VERY FIRST TIME HE STRAPS ON A 'SPIT' is not only LAUGHABLE, it's insulting to the REAL pilots who fought and died in the 'Battle of Britain.'The famous 'Doolittle Raid' took place on April 18, 1942 - a scant 4-1/2 months after the Pearl Harbor attack. Yet, we're supposed to believe that not only can Affleck's character IMMEDIATELY master unfamiliar aircraft (forgetting that a B-25 is a MULTI-ENGINE BOMBER no less for the moment!), apparently so can Josh Hartnett's character. It took EXPERIENCED B-25 bomber crews about that long to train for this extremely hazardous raid on Japan (January 1942 to April 18, 1942). No way in the world could P-40 fighter pilots be chosen to fly B-25 bombers in the 'Doolittle Raid!'What I don't understand is that since Bruckheimer was obviously not interested in historical accuracy, in addition to Affleck's character's superhuman abilities of shooting down EXPERIENCED Germans pilots over England and BATTLE TESTED Japanese pilots over Pearl Harbor, rescuing sailors trapped in half-sunk ships, giving blood, and eventually taking the war to the Japanese in the 'Doolittle Raid,' why didn't Bruckheimer just have Affleck's character pump-out and raise the Arizona and single-handedly save her crew from their watery grave. Thank goodness there are some things even Bruckheimer can't swallow!The special effects and battle scenes were great! Yeah, I know. Bruckheimer wasn't shooting a documentary. BUT, if you want an entertaining, more historically accurate dramatic portrayal of the events of, and leading up to, December 7th, 1941, stick with Tora! Tora! Tora! That movie is based upon the work of a historian considered by many to be the top of his field, Gordon Prange. Although Dr. Prange wrote many books on this topic, I believe his book, "At Dawn We Slept" was the basis of Tora! Tora! Tora! As a MEDAL OF HONOR winner, General Doolittle, and the heroic pilots he led on that raid deserved better than the way they were portrayed in Bruckheimer's schlock film. Despite the romance scenes, and when it was filmed, "30 Seconds Over Tokyo" is a much more accurate depiction of the famous "Doolittle Raid." At least it's more believable! Affleck, Hartnett, and Bruckheimer may have listened to WWII veterans, but they did not hear. They did not learn. Nor did they appreciate the immeasurable costs paid by those members of this country's 'greatest generation.'The only things I recognized as historically accurate about this film were: 1) the US was attacked at Pearl Harbor by Japan on December 7th, 1941; 2) the US Army did fly P-40s; 3) British pilots did do combat with Germans in the skies over England during the 'Battle of Britain;' 4) some British pilots did crash into the Channel; 5) Cuba Gooding's character, a black mess cook, DID shoot down Japanese planes even though he received no gunnery training; and 6) Doolittle did lead a force of 16 US Army B-25 bombers from the carrier USS Hornet against Japan. I can't speak to any accuracies about the nurses, or their quick thinking, e.g., writing with lipstick on the foreheads of the wounded.The only way I'd own a copy of this film is if someone accidentally gave it to me as a gift.

I don't care how much people hate this movie and how cheesy it is. It's entertaining, gripping, beautiful, romantic and a good old war/love epic i always circle back to time and time again. Plus Josh Hartnett in a pilots uniform? HEK YESSSSSSS!

Pearl Harbor turns out to be two 90 minute movies.  One is the warhistory film of the attack on Pearl Harbor.  The other is a war-timeromance.  Personally I prefer the former.  Unfortunately in thismovie gives you both, pleasing only a few and taking three hoursto do so.  Much of the non-historical parts are not all that well donewith the first hour suffering from bad chemistry and weak plotstriking in the last hour.  In the end it turns out to be just anaverage movie and not something you really want to have to watchthree hours of.

In 1941 it cost the Empire of Japan 147 thousand dollars to stage the three hour attack on Pearl Harbor.In 2001 Michael Bay spent $132 MILLION dollars to film the event, and ran four minutes longer. Even taking into account 60 years of inflation, the Japanese did a better job with a smaller budget...Due to the ten line minimum submission this may be too short - but sometimes less is more.20th Century Fox already did the Pearl Harbor attack in Tora Tora Tora - and did an excellent job. Michael Bay should have left well enough alone.

I don't understand, why people are rating this film so bad. In my opinion its a good mixture between action and love story. Maybe a little bit more action. And in my oppinion a film hasn't to be 100% accurate, when it's enjoyable to watch it. If you want accurate things, then you have to watch some documentarys and not action films.

Before I went to see this movie I heard that the reviews were going to be not so good for it.  Friday I read the paper and it was excactely as I thought ,but since I don't like critics even though I have become one.  I said I am going to see it.  I did and I agree with the critics this time. First of all the Special Effects were absoultely awsome.  I mean this is one of those movies where it is very hard to tell the anything digitaly created. It was just so great.. The plot is were I had problems It seemed that Ben Afflek and Josh Hartnet seemed to get into Every single major battle out of coincedence... Don't get me wrong it was good but it's not worth the hype.Grade 8/10

I seriously do not understand the utter hate toward this film by critics when writing their reviews. "Historically inaccurate" or "Just another love story" or "boring!"... If you want to see a film that is totally historically accurate, watch a documentary for heavens sake. This movie goes way out of proportion to what really happened that day in Pearl Harbor, but it is a MOVIE! Get over it. It's not supposed to be real. The film as a whole is brilliantly written; it's not too soppy with the romance and not too over the top with pure action. People are saying that it's just too much shoot 'em up and too many explosions. Well, I got news for you... They're at war! Bombs will go off and guns will be fired from all places possible. If you want to see a movie that's not so explosive, watch Twilight. To me personally, character development is very important in a movie and I believe Pearl Harbor succeeded with this. I grew attached to individuals and felt vulnerable as a member of the audience at the best of times. Absolutely superb watch, and I'd highly recommend it! If you're offended by a film not being entirely accurate, steer clear and stick to your documentaries. 9/10! Excellent!

Pearl Harbor is what Titanic could've been if Michael Bay directed it, cause the similarities are very, well, similar. This one is set during a tragedy, the attack on Pearl Harbor in this case. There's also a love triangle, a very sappy one indeed.My main issue of the movie is well, the love story. It doesn't serve much in a wider context and feels rote and cheesy, it takes up most of the bloated runtime but there's a satisfying conclusion to it at the end. I must say, I wished the script was more focused on the relationship between the Navy's rather than this, it just screams Titanic to me. Other than that I didn't really have much of an issue with the movie besides the laughable script which I had a chuckle from. The cinematography is crisp and wonderful. The performances weren't half-assed unlike other Bay efforts but Ben Affleck was especially wooden here, as wooden as a log. Josh Hartnett fares better here and I found him more interesting. The action sequences here were mostly positives, there were shaky-cam scenes that were distracting but for the most part, it's typical Michael Bay explosions, its fun explosions especially at the attack on Pearl Harbor, the movies' centerpiece and also its biggest strength. It's a forty-minute extravaganza of special effects and signature Michael Bay firework-explosions. It made the movie for me.Im no historian but I found the Japanese reasoning to attack Pearl Harbor especially odd. The context here is that Japan attacked Pearl Harbor because America cut its oil supply. I kept asking myself, would attacking them make the situation better? Does it perhaps, restore the fuel sources?? I don't know, movie never says.Overall, this movie was serviceable, I didn't hate it to the point where I'd start ranting nor did I love it to the point of being infatuated with it. By all means, its decent. Should've focused more on the Navy instead of that goddamn trite love story, the more I talk about it the less I appreciate it. Check it out, especially for the forty-minute sequence.

Pearl Harbor is without a doubt the worst world war 2 film of the past decade! The plot was lackluster and unoriginal, the acting pathetic for the most part, and the history inaccurate.It seems to be more preoccupied with portraying America in the best light than accurately depicting the facts. The love story is out of place and pathetic.At the end of the film is a 5 minute rant about why America is supposedly great; it actually says "after pearl harbour all America knew was victory", obviously the writers had never heard of Vietnam.The only good aspect was the special effects, but they could never make up for this absolutely dire film.My only regret (apart from wasting 2 and a half hours of my life watching the film) is that I can't award zero out of 10!

For the past two decades now, Michael Bay has been known littering his films with countless explosions, and with this heavy special effects, garners wide success at the box office. Here, Michael Bay steps into the war genre with this intense, dramatic retelling of the fateful event that pulled America into World War II in the 1941. Set near the dawn of World War II, Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett play Rafe McCawley and Danny Walker, two Airforce soldiers who have been best friends since childhood. As they grow up, they are caught in a love triangle when they both fall in love with beautiful nurse named Evelyn (played by Kate Beckinsale). Things get pretty complicated when Danny and Evelyn are transferred to Pearl Harbor where Rafe returns from fighting overseas in Great Britain to find the two are in a relationship. Next morning, December 7, Danny and Rafe wake up to find hundreds of Japanese fighter pilots dropping bombs on Pearl Harbor. The two friends arm themselves with the F-51s in attempt to fight off against the Japanese fleet. With the U.S naval base devastated and thousands of innocent lives lost, the U.S declares war against war. From there on, Dafe and Rafe and their army lead by Lieutenant Colonol James Dolittle (played by Alec Baldwin) prepare for a fight against Japan to overcome their country's catastrophic defeat. This film also features Cuba Gooding Jr. who plays Captain Dorie Miller, the first African- American in history to be awarded the U.S Navy Cross.The bombing of Pearl Harbor was one of the most shocking moments in the history of America, and it makes interesting subject matter to be told on on screen. Although this movie does manage to paint the horrors that took place during that fateful day, this film does suffer from some flaws that director Michael Bay is often known. Now with a war movie being directed by Bay, audience should go into this movie expecting abundance of explosions and this film plenty of these during the 40-minute action sequences that takes place during the attack on Pearl Harbor. The entire scene is very well done and the special effects are great. The scene really captures the grim details of what the civilians of Pearl Harbor suffered through as we watch countless of people killed from gunfire and drowning, as well as others who suffer some gruesome injuries. This entire scene is quite difficult to watch and it really pulls at your heart strings. Now here is where the film falters. Along with the whole Japanese attack and its aftermath, audiences are treated with a romantic subplot involving Josh Hartnett, Ben Affleck, and Kate Beckinsale that takes up a good portion of the film. What we get from this is poor acting and cheesy dialogue between Affleck and Beckinsale, including a line "I love you so much it hurts", a line that is highly laughable and far too corny, especially when dealing with a war flick. The whole love story is not terrible, but definitely takes more than what is needed of the film. With the whole story, the film ends up running 183 minutes. Pearl Harbor is certainly not one of the best war movies in Hollywood and definitely not the best of what Michael Bay has to offer. I feel that this could have done better if it was handled someone like Steven Spielberg who has been masterful with the World War II genre (Saving Private Ryan, Schindler's List). Overall, this is film is not terrible. Despite some of its flaws, it still works and is entertaining to watch.

PEARL HARBOR is an attempt by Michael Bay to do what James Cameron did on TITANIC: create an epic romance surrounding a real-life historical disaster plot. Unfortunately, the romance takes the form of the cheesiest love triangle ever, with boring Ben Affleck and struggling Josh Hartnett competing for the affection of the entirely wooden Kate Beckinsale. This laborious, badly-written, long-winded nonsense means that PEARL HARBOR clocks in with a three hour running time, but the truth of it is that at least two hours of said running time is pure padded excess. No matter how many famous cast members they add to the mix, there's no getting around all of the cliches and the monotonous nature of the human interaction. The good news is that the attack itself takes the form of a forty-minute set-piece sequence which is quite exhilarating, utilising some very good CGI effects and non-stop explosive stunts to make it a truly impressive and immersive experience. The rest can be safely ignored, and if you're looking for a definitive version of this story, I'd recommend TORA! TORA! TORA!.

Unlike some other war movies, Gallipoli, Full Metal Jacket etc Pearl Harbor seems to be more focused on entertaining rather than deep characterisation of a morales tale.So not looking for the answers to those deep questions regarding war, this is a movie of love, loss, action and entertainment.I'm not sure fun is the right word so lets go with enjoyable.Its a long film that keeps you engaged and interested the entire time.What more can we really ask?

(Please excuse my French, it's probably wrong)
 
 Roll up, roll up! See the cinematic spectacle of 2001! See the horrible 
 deaths of 2500 or so people commemorated by a film about two guys who 
 fly fast planes really fast. See them go ZOOOOOOOOM, see them go 
 WHIIIIZZZZ! See them reprise the 'flypast and debriefing' scenes from 
 Top Gun. Watch the beautiful love story unfold. See the true love two 
 people have for one another tested and broken when Kate Beckinsale 
 comes between them.
 
 See a fine young actor reduced to playing Token Black Guy. Watch as he 
 fights to prove he's more than a Token Black Guy, even though he's 
 given so little to do that he ends up as nothing more than a Token 
 Black Guy (even though, unlike the two guys in the planes, Token Black 
 Guy actually existed).
 
 Watch the awful bombing of a military target. Watch the heroic bombing 
 of a city. Watch Jon Voigt recreate Peter Sellars' unforgettable 
 character Dr. Strangelove.
 
 Watch the whole reality of war, and the lives and deaths therein 
 trivialised to make a Big Dumb Action Movie that thinks it's some kind 
 of ghastly tribute to the American dead of December the 7th.
 
 Or better still... don't!
 
 On the other hand, if you want an unrealistic film with ponderously 
 paced romance, fighter planes zooming all over the place and nice 
 explosions, check this out. It's a lot of fun. Just don't take it 
 seriously - you'll only encourage them!

About one third of the way through this mess, my daughter left her friends and came to me for some money to go to the concession stand. I asked her if they were selling pillows there. This is one of the longest movies I have ever sat through (at least that's what my back tells me). It has some of the worst writing I have ever heard. The set-up and the romantic intrigues are predictable and uninteresting. There is absolutely no suspense. The whole plot is contrived. Oh, yes, there is an endless attack by the Japanese, but by the time it happened, my mind was wandering. As far as those tragic lovers, I thought I was watching a bunch of eighth grade girls and boys ticked off because she said he said she said, whatever!! Then, of course, we have Jimmy Doolittle, going on his raid to make up for what those guys did to us. What a slap in the face to the real event. How can a director with 135 million dollars make the attack on Pearl Harbor dull. Yes, it probably looked like that. Those bombers and fighters moving clandestinely in on the island--destroying the fleet with no conscience. What about a script? What about the building of some sort of momentum? How about focusing on the realistic politics of the time and seeing the world from both sides. I was so disappointed in this film. People wonder why it's so expensive to go to the movies these days. It's because the studios are footing the bill for this kind of bilge!

After seeing this film, I have to say that I'm glad I listened to what all my friends were saying about this film and only paid attention to less than half of this film. The two battle scenes were what I found worth watching, and I hadn't expected anything else, from what everyone told me about the film. Had I not been fully aware that nothing other than those two scenes were worth watching, had my state of mind been completely open to this film, I would have hated it, and my review would have been a thoroughly negative one. It's more than likely that I would have commented on Jerry Bruckheimer's and Michael Bay's lack of actual talent and their extreme use of explosions(usually overplayed and overdone ones) to cover this up. But I won't. I won't comment much on plot, pacing, acting or characters. I could complain that this is just another typical, empty Hollywood film that takes a historical event and smothers in with romance and sappy sentimentality instead of bringing the real story(as if it didn't have enough impact on its own), much like they(seemingly; haven't seen it, for obvious reasons) did with Titanic. I could argue that the plot is thin and everything but the actual historical events seem bland and unimportant, that the acting seems flat, the pacing excruciatingly bad and the characters paper-thin clichés and stereotypes. But I'll try not to. Instead, I will comment on the two battle scenes, for those who share my point of view on the sappy romantic drivel of many late epic films. They look pretty good. The effects are impressive, though the CGI is overly obvious at times. Most of it looks good, and the overuse of explosions supposedly won't bother most action fans(though I, being in favor of realism in war movies, found this to be quite bothersome and annoying). If you really like strong war-action, you should check out a movie that delivers more of it(like Black Hawk Down) or at a far more realistic approach to it(like Der Untergang). However, if you want to see the Bruckheimer version of a war scene, by all means, see this film. I warn you, though, most of it is simply not worth paying attention to. I recommend this to fans of war movies with Hollywood action scenes and/or people who can't watch a movie that doesn't contain romance. 6/10

Given the choice between producing a popular film and a great film, producer Jerry Bruckheimer (Armageddon, Top Gun, Beverly Hills Cop, ConAir) will always choose the popular film.  He is nothing if not consistent.  His films always make lots of money and seldom deliver much more than slick eye candy for the masses.  Bruckheimer has a golden opportunity to depart from his blockbuster mentality with this film, but he goes with his business instincts rather than taking a chance with a filmmaker's approach.  The result is another big budget crowd pleaser with a cotton candy plot and terrific battle scenes, aided by impressive digital effects.The script by Randall Wallace of `Braveheart' fame is the biggest problem. Wallace is clearly capable of writing an engaging script, but that obviously isn't what the boss wanted.  It seems that Bruckheimer has Titanic envy and tries to use the same formula of wrapping a piece of history around a love story.  Either that or he is trying to follow in the footsteps of `From Here to Eternity', the much acclaimed 1953 story that occurs as a prelude to the attack on Pearl Harbor.  However, FHTE did not pretend to be a story ABOUT Pearl Harbor, and only included the attack as another disruptive event in an emotionally tumultuous story.  While FHTE was a gripping and powerful story of love, hatred, lust and honor, PH is a trite and predictable love story that serves an interminable prelude to 30 minutes of terrific battle scenes. The inadvertent love triangle between best friends could have been predicted by a teenager (which seemed to be the target audience of this film, based on the PG rating and the sappy dialogue).  And of course the resolution of the dilemma is just as neat and obvious.Director Michael Bay (Armageddon, The Rock) isn't known for his subtle and insightful direction of human stories.  Bay is known for his explosions, and predictably the human story is bungled while the battle is extraordinary. Bay directs a period piece without much regard for understanding and reproducing the 1940's.  It seems all he cares about is the military angle. The costume design and hair for the girls' is merely good while the military costumes are perfect.  Mostly, the ‘40's feel is missing.  The music is all wrong.  It should have been big band music instead of the standard blockbuster symphonic compositions which did not fit the period at all. Various details are overlooked, like the fact that well more than half of young adults of that era smoked.  Not one character in the film smoked, nor was there a single cigarette to be found in the nightclub scene.  Rent any film from the forties and fifties and notice how many people smoke. Everybody.  Another thing that is incredible is the fact that Evelyn (Kate Beckingsale), who was having morning sickness on December 7 is not showing in mid April, more than four months later.  Perhaps if she were 200 lbs I could believe that, but the lithe Evelyn would have shown more than a little pooch by then.Also missing are the colloquialisms of the day.  Not a single `swell', `dame', `jeepers', `say' or `ain't' in the whole film.  No Brooklyn or Chicago accents.  Everyone speaks perfect twenty first century Funk and Wagnall's College English.The battle scene is a marvel of action filmmaking.  It is highly realistic as a depiction of the battle, but there was a lot of cheating that didn't escape the notice of WWII buffs.  It is pretty amazing that Bruckheimer got so much cooperation from the US government in being able to film in the Harbor.  The government even loaned the production company numerous mothballed ships.  Unfortunately, a lot of them were ships designed and built after WWII and they didn't bother to clean them up in post production. They built a complete digital world and left post WWII ships in the picture.  That is just poor attention to detail in a film that is all about detail.  Still, by any standard, this is fantastic action sequence that could not have been more realistic if one had actually been there.The acting is mixed.  Beckingsale is excellent as Evelyn.  She creates a very appealing romantic figure.  Ben Affleck is too moody and sarcastic in the role.  Josh Hartnett is much better, coming across as far more sincere and relating to his character better than Affleck.  Affleck seems content to play Ben Affleck in uniform rather than trying to actually flesh out a character.Cuba Gooding Jr. gives an excellent performance in a minor role.  Veterans Alec Baldwin and Jon Voight do a marvelous job as Colonel Doolitle and FDR.I rated this film a 6/10 on the strength of the visual effects.  It would have been much better if it had been about Pearl Harbor instead of being a schmaltzy love triangle story that coincided with the attack.  The entire event that is Pearl Harbor is shrouded in intriguing questions.  Did Roosevelt know about the attack in advance and allow it to happen to get us into the war?  Many historical facts indicate that was the case (it is thought to be more than just lucky that the aircraft carriers weren't in the harbor that day).  What was really going on in the minds of the Japanese? Were the diplomatic efforts of the US designed to force the Japanese into attacking us as a matter of honor?  As much as I dislike Oliver Stone, this film would have been substantial if it had been done in his docudrama style (without the historical rewrites of course).Instead we have another puff piece by the master of puff.  Thanks Jerry.

Ignoring the claims that this movie was so wonderful because Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett are "so-o-o-o-o hot," and that the "music was so-o-o-o good," I want to talk about all the historical inaccuracies about this movie. People get the impression that by watching the movie, they will understand not one, but two historical WWII events: Pearl Harbor and Doolittle's Raid. However, this is just not so. While extra care was given for the attack scene (I think WWII veterans would have crucified the producers if this had not been so), the other smaller details give the watcher a false sense of history. For one thing, no Red Cross Army nurses died (as they portray Betty dying). Also, no US soldier would go to Britain to join the Royal Air Force. The US Army Air Force had a unit (the Flying Tigers) in Britain helping out the RAF, but no US soldier would actually leave his unit to join another country's military (regardless of allies). It would mean a total US military discharge AND rejecting US citizenship. Ben Affleck's character could not have done that, especially when he was not a British citizen. Also, Ben and Josh Hartnett's characters were fighter pilots. NOT Bomber pilots. The two are very separate things. Ben and Josh could never switch from being fighter pilots to bombers for Doolittle's Raid. The Army Air Force had pilots for all kinds of missions, and fighter pilots stayed fighter pilots, and bombers stayed bombers. Continuing with Doolittle's raid, it did NOT turn the tide for the Americans. It was not a military victory, and little in Tokyo was affected. It only served as propaganda to help the US citizens on the homefront (also, Doolittle's Raid was long after Pearl Harbor and not a revenge mission). Watch this movie if you're into sappy love stories, but NOT if you want to learn about Pearl Harbor (and/or the Doolittle Raid). Few historical facts can be gleaned from this movie.

I've never written a review before but after seen how many people are saying this film I thought I better.
I actually think the film was great the main premise of the film which I feel most people have completely missed is a bond between two guys that is as strong as a brotherhood hood. The alpha one who has the confidence to take over the world and the quiter one both who would die for each other in an instance. And maybe it was just me but I really did feel the emotions that they feel throughout the film. It seems like a lot of people hate the film so maybe I'm missing something but i think its a great film. The film is not totally accurate but films don't need to be and I film is long which is the reason I suspect it gets so much hate.

Pearl Harbor turns out to be two 90 minute movies.  One is the warhistory film of the attack on Pearl Harbor.  The other is a war-timeromance.  Personally I prefer the former.  Unfortunately in thismovie gives you both, pleasing only a few and taking three hoursto do so.  Much of the non-historical parts are not all that well donewith the first hour suffering from bad chemistry and weak plotstriking in the last hour.  In the end it turns out to be just anaverage movie and not something you really want to have to watchthree hours of.

SpoilersTo borrow and paraphrase from that great orator and writer, Winston Churchill, 'Never in the annals of human endeavor have so many witnessed the butchering of history by so few.'I remember a story on a national morning TV news program that was a major promotion for the debut of this huge waste of celluloid. This interview/promotion took place aboard the aircraft carrier that's on permanent display in New York harbor. The major male stars, Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett, along with Producer Jerry Bruckheimer were interviewed by one of the hosts of this TV morning news show. In this interview, all three claimed that they enjoyed talking to veterans and listening to their stories. Well, I don't think they were paying much attention to those vets.Or at least they decided to ignore reality when it interfered with their script!Some historical facts that got in the way of Bruckheimer's blockbuster: It doesn't matter how simple WWII aircraft are compared to today's jets. Ask any pilot and he/she can tell you that you just don't go from flying American P-40 fighters one day, go to England and jump into the cockpit of a British Spitfire fighter and start shooting down HIGHLY EXPERIENCED, COMBAT VETERAN German PILOTS the next! (I don't care that even a blind pig can find the occasional acorn!) Each aircraft's handling qualities, e.g., speed, max altitude, rate of climb, rate of dive, turning, etc., are different. In other words, a pilot has to be TRAINED on that aircraft! To ask us to believe that Affleck's character, who hadn't seen REAL aerial combat prior to England, can shoot down experienced German fighter pilots the VERY FIRST TIME HE STRAPS ON A 'SPIT' is not only LAUGHABLE, it's insulting to the REAL pilots who fought and died in the 'Battle of Britain.'The famous 'Doolittle Raid' took place on April 18, 1942 - a scant 4-1/2 months after the Pearl Harbor attack. Yet, we're supposed to believe that not only can Affleck's character IMMEDIATELY master unfamiliar aircraft (forgetting that a B-25 is a MULTI-ENGINE BOMBER no less for the moment!), apparently so can Josh Hartnett's character. It took EXPERIENCED B-25 bomber crews about that long to train for this extremely hazardous raid on Japan (January 1942 to April 18, 1942). No way in the world could P-40 fighter pilots be chosen to fly B-25 bombers in the 'Doolittle Raid!'What I don't understand is that since Bruckheimer was obviously not interested in historical accuracy, in addition to Affleck's character's superhuman abilities of shooting down EXPERIENCED Germans pilots over England and BATTLE TESTED Japanese pilots over Pearl Harbor, rescuing sailors trapped in half-sunk ships, giving blood, and eventually taking the war to the Japanese in the 'Doolittle Raid,' why didn't Bruckheimer just have Affleck's character pump-out and raise the Arizona and single-handedly save her crew from their watery grave. Thank goodness there are some things even Bruckheimer can't swallow!The special effects and battle scenes were great! Yeah, I know. Bruckheimer wasn't shooting a documentary. BUT, if you want an entertaining, more historically accurate dramatic portrayal of the events of, and leading up to, December 7th, 1941, stick with Tora! Tora! Tora! That movie is based upon the work of a historian considered by many to be the top of his field, Gordon Prange. Although Dr. Prange wrote many books on this topic, I believe his book, "At Dawn We Slept" was the basis of Tora! Tora! Tora! As a MEDAL OF HONOR winner, General Doolittle, and the heroic pilots he led on that raid deserved better than the way they were portrayed in Bruckheimer's schlock film. Despite the romance scenes, and when it was filmed, "30 Seconds Over Tokyo" is a much more accurate depiction of the famous "Doolittle Raid." At least it's more believable! Affleck, Hartnett, and Bruckheimer may have listened to WWII veterans, but they did not hear. They did not learn. Nor did they appreciate the immeasurable costs paid by those members of this country's 'greatest generation.'The only things I recognized as historically accurate about this film were: 1) the US was attacked at Pearl Harbor by Japan on December 7th, 1941; 2) the US Army did fly P-40s; 3) British pilots did do combat with Germans in the skies over England during the 'Battle of Britain;' 4) some British pilots did crash into the Channel; 5) Cuba Gooding's character, a black mess cook, DID shoot down Japanese planes even though he received no gunnery training; and 6) Doolittle did lead a force of 16 US Army B-25 bombers from the carrier USS Hornet against Japan. I can't speak to any accuracies about the nurses, or their quick thinking, e.g., writing with lipstick on the foreheads of the wounded.The only way I'd own a copy of this film is if someone accidentally gave it to me as a gift.

I don't care how much people hate this movie and how cheesy it is. It's entertaining, gripping, beautiful, romantic and a good old war/love epic i always circle back to time and time again. Plus Josh Hartnett in a pilots uniform? HEK YESSSSSSS!

Pros:
Very good special effects that stand the test of time.
Nice action scenes.
Good acting from some of the cast.
Cons:
Too long!
Mainly focuses on the love stories and the war scenes are something like a break from them..Overall a quite good movie but not great or something epic!
And 3 hours! is too long, maybe the love stories should be a bit shorter eg. 30 minutes shorter in total.

In 1941 it cost the Empire of Japan 147 thousand dollars to stage the three hour attack on Pearl Harbor.In 2001 Michael Bay spent $132 MILLION dollars to film the event, and ran four minutes longer. Even taking into account 60 years of inflation, the Japanese did a better job with a smaller budget...Due to the ten line minimum submission this may be too short - but sometimes less is more.20th Century Fox already did the Pearl Harbor attack in Tora Tora Tora - and did an excellent job. Michael Bay should have left well enough alone.

Contains Spoiler!! A matter of weeks before he is due to leave for England having volunteered to fight with the RAF, Capt Rafe McCawley meets and falls for Evelyn Johnson.  He leaves very much in love with her but, when he is supposedly killed in action, his best friend (Danny) has to tell Evelyn that he is dead.  As they turn to one another for support and healing they gradually fall in love.  When Rafe is found alive he returns to America and finds his best friend in love with his girlfriend.  This complex love triangle is made even more complex when the Japanese attack Pearl Harbour and draw America into World War II.You can see why they made this film - a major emotional centrepiece, around which a Hollywood love story between beautiful people occurs; sounds like another Titanic right? I do not understand why that film became so very popular and showered with awards, but I do understand why Pearl Harbour did so badly critically (but it sadly still did make several hundred million dollars - something the gloaters tend to forget!).  The good thing about the film is the action - it seems to be the only thing that Michael Bay can really do well. You can see where the money was spent and it is pretty exciting.  The only reservation I had about it was that Bay cannot help but deliver the action like Bad Boys rather than Saving Private Ryan - in other words the sheer horror of the attack is lost in a sea of glossy special effects, slick camera movements and big bangs, it looks great but it is difficult to really be shocked or moved in the way that the events really should have.  Sure, the shots of bodies and the hospitals sort of bring it home but you can't help but feel the majority of the action is rather soulless.  Of course, very like Bay, he doesn't know when to end and after the attack he follows the action to America's retaliation - where Rafe `shows 'em what for' - here the action is silly and just far too simplistic for the subject involved.I think it was the other `qualities' the film has that made it such a hated film.  The romance that is supposed to engage us with the three main characters is horribly banal and only serves to make the film's first half feel significantly longer than it really is.  The romance fails for two big reasons.  First of all, there are zero characters; they are plodding cardboard creations with all-American qualities and strong jaw lines. They were never real people to me and I swear this film could have ended with each of them being torn to bloody shreds by Japanese bulldogs and I would have struggled to care less - even the almost constant use of Hans Zimmers' score can't make this emotionally involving.  Secondly the script is a woefully inept piece of rubbish that makes the Telebubbies feel like the pinnacle of modern writing.  At best the lines just seem clunky and unnatural; at worst they are heavy with cliché and just smack of lazy writing - when I'd heard Afflect shout `get me in a plane NOW' for the third time or Hartnett announce `world war 2 has started' (oh - so it didn't in 1939?) I was already starting to feel my ears bleed.  Basically if it is not all clichéd tough talk then it is corny romance dialogue - neither work and only serve to further destroy the foundations of an already weak film.The acting fits perfectly with the standard of characterisation and dialogue and is roundly average despite having a pretty impressive list of names in the cast.  Affleck is not a leading man and nothing he has done since Good Will Hunting has convinced me that he can carry a film: like it or not, DiCaprio was part of Titanic's success - Affleck is part of Pearl Harbour's failing.  He is nothing more than a rugged face, square jawed hero type American boy - the only silver lining to the film is that at least a good script wasn't wasted on his flat and uninvolving delivery.  Hartnett is no better but least is pretty to look at; it's just a shame that that is all he is.  Beckinsale is a nonentity who is given nothing to do and therefore does almost nothing.  Why (or how) these two men fell for her was never made clear.  Gooding Jr is so poorly used that I wondered why the film even bothered to keep him in it. He is poorly fitting to the period (talking in modern ethnic clichés - a further sign of lazy writing) and he exists to give us a vague focus on the ships and also be the first black soldier to get a medal (`but not the last' the film reassuringly confirms).  As poorly used as they are, at least it is interesting to see faces like Jennifer Garner, Dan Aykroyd, Adam Baldwin, Sizemore, Voight, Tagawa, Everett, Diehl, Coates and Fichtner.  The only shame is that most of them have little to do and that some of them just seem really out of place (Aykroyd and Tagawa in particular).Overall, compared to the mix of spiteful or unfairly adoring reviews that are around, this might seem a balanced one but understand that I really do consider this a waste of film and time.  Bay does the action with style but sadly missing the soul that the situation required.  The romance is awful and is a major problem since this was supposed to be our foundation and the script shows a complete inability to develop characters or put anything other than clichéd dialogue into their mouths.

"Pearl Harbor" comes off like "Titanic" meets "Tora! Tora! Tora!". It's a three hour epic that has shades of those two movies, and in the end I was kind of disappointed. This film should have been better than it turned out to be. The big problem with this film is the director, Michael Bay. Bay directed this film pretty much the same way he directed his last film "Armageddon", sloppy and inconsistent. With the exception of the Pearl Harbor attack sequence which is excellently done, most of the scenes before that attack come off as corny and ridiculous. And the love triangle between Ben Affleck, Josh Hartnett, and Kate Beckinsale doesn't even stand up to the love story between Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in "Titanic". However, the big scene when Pearl Harbor comes under attack is a tour-de-force sequence. The special effects are superb and horrifying. But just think at how much better this film could have been. If Steven Spielberg or James Cameron had directed this, "Pearl Harbor" would have been a much better film. Spielberg and Cameron are directing geniuses compared to Bay, who foolishly tries to integrate comic relief in the first part of the film which comes off ineptly silly. But he's got the special effects in the right place. So all-in-all, I was kind of disappointed with "Pearl Harbor", the film that was predicted to be the biggest hit of summer 2001, but ended up being a slight box office disappointment (at the time of this review the movies' gross was at $197 million, still below $200 million). It's not an awful film, but it could have been better.**1/2 (out of four)

Allright.. it wasn't as TERRIBLE as I expected, but it wasn't Saving Private Ryan, either.  The actors all seemed to fit their roles with the exception of Alec Baldwin's impression of Jimmy Doolittle.  As Doolittle, Baldwin DID LITTLE.  Jon Voigt was a great FDR, and had most of the jerky movements as our 32nd Prez.  I think that the first 45 minutes could have been a bunch better but what do I expect from Jerry Bruckheimer and his gang?  Cuba Gooding Jr.'s part wasn't really necessary except to appease the NAACP (no offense, but really.. where DOES he fit in?)  He seemed to be reprising his Men of Honor role, and if it had been Denzel Washington he would seem to reprise his role on Hurricane...Overall, good fighting scenes, bad inspirational moments (specifically Alec "Doolittle" Baldwin's 'that's just me' business).

Before I went to see this movie I heard that the reviews were going to be not so good for it.  Friday I read the paper and it was excactely as I thought ,but since I don't like critics even though I have become one.  I said I am going to see it.  I did and I agree with the critics this time. First of all the Special Effects were absoultely awsome.  I mean this is one of those movies where it is very hard to tell the anything digitaly created. It was just so great.. The plot is were I had problems It seemed that Ben Afflek and Josh Hartnet seemed to get into Every single major battle out of coincedence... Don't get me wrong it was good but it's not worth the hype.Grade 8/10

What a great film this could have been!  The recreation of the attack on Pearl Harbor is some of the best film-making ever - an extraordinary and moving sequence made utterly believable by state of the art special effects. It ranks up there with the opening sequence from "Saving Private Ryan" and the sinking of the "Titanic" as one of the most harrowing "disaster" sequences filmed in recent years.  But like both those other two films, PEARL HARBOR is desperately in need of a decent script to frame the disaster sequence.Okay - I could almost accept the hokey old love triangle romantic plot - certainly the stars are great to look at - but the dialogue really sucked: "I don't think I'll ever look at another sunset without thinking of you". Please!  And all those hero shots from the ground, and the slow motion love bits, and the soppy music, and the eternal sunsets...But what this film really needed was an editor!  The climax of the film is the attack on Pearl Harbor - an American defeat.  But it seems the film-makers decided that the American audience wouldn't be satisfied with this - and so the movie grinds on and on for another hour or so dramatising a revenge attack on Japan.  And we're supposed to believe that this attack was fought by the very same guys who were on the ground in Hawaii.  I mean we all know that America won the war in the end, so did we really need this long epilogue?Personally I'd cut out all the Roosevelt and the Japanese high command scenes and concentrate on the experiences of the people on the ground at Pearl Harbor.  The Japanese stuff was all completely unbelievable anyway. The sad loss would be the superb performance of Jon Voight as Roosevelt - but maybe they could make another film about him.  I'd also end the film after the attack at Pearl Harbor, as the survivors pick up the pieces.  So why not have a shorter Director's Cut - a novel concept - that makes this film the great film it could have been.  If you like I'll lend the scissors!

I don't understand, why people are rating this film so bad. In my opinion its a good mixture between action and love story. Maybe a little bit more action. And in my oppinion a film hasn't to be 100% accurate, when it's enjoyable to watch it. If you want accurate things, then you have to watch some documentarys and not action films.

Though the movie was a bit long and probably could have been edited to 2.5 hours, this rendition of that day that will live in infamy, will leave most people in awe of how close we were to preventing this disaster, and how terrible it must have been for our parents and grandparents who survived Pearl Harbor, to have watched helplessly as their buddies, and fellow soldiers, and loved ones were killed before their own eyes in a matter of minutes. After seeing this movie, I can't see how anyone with a heart, can't feel the pain, the fright, and emotional horror these young soldiers had to endure not just for an hour of hell, but the rest of their lives.

Pearl Harbor is a movie so spectacularly awful that it would be funny if it wasn't so infuriating. There hasn't been a big-budget re-enactment of the Pearl Harbor attack since Tora! Tora! Tora! in 1970, and, due to the utter failure of this movie on every level, it's unlikely it will be attempted again for a long, long time.The writing is ludicrous. It's a series of situations and set pieces strung together without a single regard given to character development or even plausibility. The acting is beneath contempt. Ben Affleck should never have been let anywhere near this film, and in the "love" scenes between himself and Kate Beckinsdale, it appears patently obvious that the actors completely detest each other. The attack scene is filmed and edited like a Saturday morning cartoon. And...excuse me...in real life Pearl Harbor was a DEFEAT. There was none of the stupid garbage with slick fighter jocks dogfighting Japanese Zeros. This film makes it look like a victory! And, excuse me...FDR could not stand up by himself. The scene in the cabinet room where he rises from his chair was simply laughable.This film is beyond bad. It is insulting. It's a 6-year-old's coloring book passed off as history. Aside from that, it's probably the limpest, shoddiest big-budget "epic" produced in the last 10 years. The day it opened in theaters was truly a day of infamy.

I seriously do not understand the utter hate toward this film by critics when writing their reviews. "Historically inaccurate" or "Just another love story" or "boring!"... If you want to see a film that is totally historically accurate, watch a documentary for heavens sake. This movie goes way out of proportion to what really happened that day in Pearl Harbor, but it is a MOVIE! Get over it. It's not supposed to be real. The film as a whole is brilliantly written; it's not too soppy with the romance and not too over the top with pure action. People are saying that it's just too much shoot 'em up and too many explosions. Well, I got news for you... They're at war! Bombs will go off and guns will be fired from all places possible. If you want to see a movie that's not so explosive, watch Twilight. To me personally, character development is very important in a movie and I believe Pearl Harbor succeeded with this. I grew attached to individuals and felt vulnerable as a member of the audience at the best of times. Absolutely superb watch, and I'd highly recommend it! If you're offended by a film not being entirely accurate, steer clear and stick to your documentaries. 9/10! Excellent!

First, the errata: Dorie Miller wouldn't have been flirting with Evelyn.Dorie Miller died on a ship a few years after the attack and received his medal posthumously. He did, however, fire the 50-cal and it is believed he shot down one or two planes. His captain also survived in real life.Oh yeah, people smoked. A lot. They also played poker.No nurses died in the attack.The Doolittle raid was tidied up for Hollywood.While factual, I still do not believe that Jon Voight could ever have sired Angelina Jolie, but give the man props for his creation. His acting? He said it best in the movie, after the attack: "How bad?" It is true that America scrambled a few fighter jets and shot down a few Japanese planes. This may have been one of the reasons that the third wave was called off (Japan suffered 29 casualties).The plot? The first half is "From Here To Eternity" while the second is Tora Tora Tora. The action scenes of the attack, which run a full twenty minutes, save the film. You really get a feel for what it was like to be bombed like that. Where the film almost, but not quite, perishes, is how it attempts to insert a chick-flick into a war movie. The result is what I imagine it would taste like to mix milk and orange juice, two things which are fine on their own but not pleasant when combined.The movie's other main strength was in its portrayal of the Japanese as an honorable nation that felt it had to conduct this war to preserve its place in the world. We have certainly done this ourselves, and the film also captured the sense of total victory experienced by the Japanese pilots, many of whom are now interviewed for documentaries on the war. One cannot help but respect the efficiency of the attack, including how the Japanese altered their torpedoes so they could navigate the shallow waters of Pearl Harbor. Without question, we got our tails kicked good, and from a military standpoint, it was one of the most lopsided battles of all time.The movie chose to end with the Doolittle raid, but it would have been smarter to give minor screen time to that attack, and more to the role it played in our winning the Battle of Midway, which was the true turning point of the war. That battle was won by mere seconds, as our bombers beat the refueling Japanese bombers to the attack by a whisker.The film is a good way to show a historical event to a young audience that can smooth out the inaccuracies in the history books or on the internet. The cast could have been stronger, but Affleck (Rafe), Hartnett (Danny), and Beckinsale (Evelyn) do not drop the ball while carrying the film. Jennifer Garner as the mousy Sandra was an interesting performance, especially in light of her future stardom. Dan Akroyd as the decoder was convincing as only he can be. It was good to see an SNL alum play his role well in such a big-budget feature.Watch it on cable if you're an adult, and keep the DVD around for the children for when they have a history bug. At 3:20, they'll be occupied all evening.

Pearl Harbor is without a doubt the worst world war 2 film of the past decade! The plot was lackluster and unoriginal, the acting pathetic for the most part, and the history inaccurate.It seems to be more preoccupied with portraying America in the best light than accurately depicting the facts. The love story is out of place and pathetic.At the end of the film is a 5 minute rant about why America is supposedly great; it actually says "after pearl harbour all America knew was victory", obviously the writers had never heard of Vietnam.The only good aspect was the special effects, but they could never make up for this absolutely dire film.My only regret (apart from wasting 2 and a half hours of my life watching the film) is that I can't award zero out of 10!