"Peter Pan" is without a doubt one of Disney's classics, alongside animated features such as "Snow White" and "Pinocchio."  It captures the imagination just as J.M. Barrie's novel and play have.  In the movie, the eternally young Peter Pan takes Wendy Darling and her brothers to Neverland, a place of the imagination, populated by Indians, mermaids and pirates.  Captain Hook, voiced by Hans Conreid, will always be a classic villain, and his henchman, Smee, is a perfect comic relief.  There are many funny scenes and good animated sequences.  Beneath it all, the story speaks to the kid in all of us.  We remember how important it can be to remain young at heart.

Watching this movie 15 years after probably the last time I saw it, I still found myself laughing every time Peter Pan took on Hook, it was all arranged for laughs by Disney to make a mockery of the dear Captain Hook.My favorite character in the movie was not Peter, Hook, Wendy, Wendy's brothers or The Lost boys; my favorite character was the Crocodile. I can't just get it out of my head how he seems to be so creative in trying to catch Captain Hook, my favorite was when he pushed aside the boat that Hook was trying to jump into and he caught Hook in his mouth.Disney's Peter Pan animation was done in 1953 and it is based on the play Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up in 1904 and a novel in 1911 by J. M. Barrie. It is the 14th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.It features the adventures of Peter Pan a boy who could fly and wouldn't grow up and lives in Neverland with the lost boys. His partner or side kick is Tinker Bell a fairy. The story also features his adventures with Wendy and her brothers, as they learn to fly to Neverland, meet the mermaids, Tiger Lily and the red Indians. They also battle Captain Hook and his crew.Disney out did themselves in this money spinning classic, that raked in more than 20 times its production cost (making over 80 million in the box office), Peter Pan became a source of controversy in its stereotyping of its Characters, especially the Native Indians. If not for the time it was made such a movie will never leave the production board, due to its referring of the Indians as red and comparing them to hunting animals.Peter Pan was the last and final Disney film in which all nine members of Disney's Nine Old Men worked together as directing animators and it was the last movie that was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures before Walt Disney's founding of his own distribution company, Buena Vista Distribution.Peter Pan has remained a classic over the years for children and adults alike and it is one of my best Disney animations. I will like to say it is a nice watch and something to own and keep for later as you will love to see it years after, just to see the two (Peter and Hook) go at it again and if you are like me to see the Croc try to get Hook again.www.lagsreviews.com

This Disney cartoon classic offers flights of fancy that appeal directly to children's fertile imaginations. The ability to fly and be a devil-may-care youngster and never grow up, exploring a fantasy island of Indians, pirates, mermaids and mysterious caves is a powerful magnetic pull for young dreamers. The production's artwork is beautiful, and the characters and catchy tunes add to the pleasure of watching this movie. Peter Pan is nearly upstaged by his companion Tinker Bell, a temperamental pixie who is jealous and possessive of Peter's friendship with Wendy. Captain Hook and his shadow, the crocodile, the sniveling Smee, the beautiful mermaids, and the stoic Tiger Lily are all memorable characters. The catchy tunes also make this adventure one of Disney's best.

This is one of the most charming, magical movies ever!  It is an adaptation of James Barrie's Peter Pan, the story of the boy who wouldn't grow up.  It starts in London, where a very proper Wendy has one night left in the nursery before she most grow up.  Her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Darling are out for an office party, and the nursemaid, a dog named Nana is tied up outside for the night.  Peter Pan comes and takes Wendy and her brothers John and Micheal away to Neverland, "the second star to the right and staight on til morning", with the help of the pixie dust from the jealous little pixie Tinkerbell. A sprinkling of the dust makes them fly, just like Peter does. Once in Neverland they encounter mermaids, Indians, and the foppish, but evil villian Captain Hook.  This beloved story will bring you back to your childhood and this delightful score will be hard to forget!  It is sure to have you singing along!  This is a wonderful movie that can be enjoyed by children and adults alike!

Disney's Peter Pan adapts a play and a novel that focuses on dreaming when you are young. The main characters are three children who get visited by Peter Pan, the ultimate child. Peter never grows and neither do his friends the Lost Boys, who all live in Neverland. Wendy Darling, the protagonist, is a relatable young girl whose courage and empathy are key to her relationship with her brothers John and Michael. The narrator tells us Wendy is the eldest and the authority in Peter Pan stories. John is a smart young man and Michael is almost a baby so there is a consistent gimmick of Michael repeating what John said without realizing it. They have enough comedy and personality to carry their scenes. When they first appear, they are playing make-believe posing as Peter Pan and Captain Hook already. I suspect their mother told Wendy and her brothers the stories. Mr. & Mrs. Darling are polar opposites, the father being the logical type who shuns their imagination. He is humiliated and ignored by his family because of his negative attitude, but when he is punishing the dog Nana he shows a more compassionate side.Once the parents leave, he mentions Peter Pan as he appears flying above the roofs of the house. He is only a silhouette at first until Tinker Bell lights up his face. This is a magical moment, followed by Peter entering the house claiming to be looking for his shadow. Wendy, who had the shadow kept in a drawer, stitches it back to Peter Pan and is invited to Neverland as a reward. She and her brothers learn how to fly with the dust of Tinker Bell, who is jealous of Wendy's attempt at kissing Pan. I don't find any songs from Peter Pan to be very good or memorable. "You Can Fly" is the only one I remember because they repeat it about three times in the movie.I feel the island of Neverland is the key issue. It's the first thing we see in the movie: the Second Star to the Right. When the kids go flying into it there's a great transition from a star into a solar system, which is upside down given the island is sitting on a sea in the sky. We meet Captain Hook, whose clothes and personality compose one of the great iconic Disney villain designs. I think the film succeeds in the representation of Pan and Hook. Their ongoing rivalry is something fun to pay attention to. Peter Pan is arrogant and sort of a scoundrel but you are always on his side, and even though Captain Hook was made by design for children to laugh at his misfortune, he is beloved as well. My main critique involves that the things that Peter shows to Wendy, her brothers, and the Lost Boys do not awake any sense of wonder in me. I think there was a very high bar to clear in adapting a magical place called "Neverland" where kids never grow old and adults are the enemy, and the film runs short of ideas after meeting some Mermaids and the "Indians". The Native Americans are drawn with exaggerated features, they are called "Injuns" and there is an entire musical sequence called "What Made the Red Man Red?", yet the most offensive thing about the portrayal is the simple idea that one of the "magical creatures" of the island (and the one that takes the most screentime) is this excessive stereotype. If you are going to alter the culture of a people in this way, you might as well create a fictional inhabitant for the island. There's no need for them to be Natives if you are going to say that their skin is red because one of them blushed one day.The quarrel between Peter and Hook features good scenes like the one where he saves the chief's daughter Tiger Lily. She's actually the only well-proportioned facial representation of a Native because drawing ugly women has never been Disney's strong suit. The fight between Peter and Hook is exciting, and we see it reprised in the climax of the film. The most boring sequence is Wendy singing the song about mothers. It reminds me of Mary Poppin's "Feed the Birds". Who thought this was a good idea? The kids don't want to see the characters singing slowly standing still. And Peter Pan is an hour shorter, there's even less room to do this. One of the best character designs goes to Tinker Bell, who emanates light and flies in a string of pixie dust. She serves a purpose in the story once Captain Hook sends his second-in-command to steal her. They then persuade her to betray Peter, and out of jealousy, she complies. Hook then imprisons her and kidnaps Wendy and the Lost Boys. He sends a bomb to Peter Pan, and Tinker Bell manages to escape just in time to reach Peter when the bomb is about to go off. I hate this part because the bomb literally explodes in Peter's face. The characters in the boat hear the explosion and assume Peter Pan is dead. It's true that you should lead the audience to believe Peter is dead (which of course he isn't), but making him survive a bomb explosion without a scratch is not the solution to that problem.Peter fights Captain Hook and out of compassion decides to forgive his life, which shows honor in his heart. Hook betrays his trust and attempts to backstab him, and in response, he gets what is coming to him when he falls on top of Tick Tock the Crock, a crocodile who's been tormenting him throughout the film. He does not die on screen, leaving the door open for possible sequels; the ongoing repetition of the events is a common theme in the movie. The film reminds me of The Wizard of Oz: at the beginning Wendy goes flying into the world she's always dreamed of, and when she goes back home her mother sees her waking up at the side of the window. Probably in hopes that young children wouldn't come away feeling cheated, the allusion the movie makes when Wendy's father recognizes Peter's ship is that Peter Pan visits once in a generation and "growing up" makes them forget him, Peter Pan representing the "spirit of youth". The opening lines of the film are "All this has happened before. And it will all happen again." This is a wonderful sentiment, I just hope that the next time it happens the adventure is better.6.5/10.

If Walt Disney had never made another cartoon feature after BAMBI in 1942 he would still be remembered as the man who transformed the animated full length film into an art form. SNOW WHITE , PINOCCHIO , FANTASIA and BAMBI all belong on the list of the greatest achievements in American Film. Disney's next phase in full length animation took place after World War 2 and although these subsequent works may not match the brilliance and creativity of the earlier films, they still possess the superb craftsmanship the Disney artists are famous for. Missing from the new batch of films was the meticulous background detail that distinguished the earlier projects. Starting with Cinderella in 1950, the animators seemed to concentrate more on clean, uncluttered backgrounds but the drawing was just as professional as before , characters still brought to life with fluid, lifelike movements. Colors tended to be bright and splashy, but the cartoonists also knew when subtlety was called for, and scenes occurring at night were done with convincing atmosphere and shadows. The success of Cinderella confirmed that the movie-going public was still willing to be entertained and moved by a cartoon movie, and Disney and his artists forged ahead with an impressive array of animated features that to this day remain models of the Art Form. Perhaps the greatest of these was PETER PAN, first released in 1953. Based on J.M. Barrie's immortal play and novel about the little boy who doesn't want to grow up, PETER PAN had been a project stewing in Disney's mind for years. It wasn't until after the War that work on the film really took off. When the movie was completed and finally released to theaters, Disney seemed rather ambivalent about its achievement. He had a hard time defining who Peter actually was as a character but to millions of children in movie theaters all over the world, that didn't seem to matter. PETER PAN is not very deep story-wise. It lacks the heart and sentiment of the Barrie original, which to some degree is a good thing. Past stage versions and the spectacular 1924 Paramount film version could be cloyingly sentimental at times.The Disney version is light and breezy and moves at a clip. The London sequence which opens the picture is spectacular in both the backdrops and the animation itself. When Peter, Wendy, John and Michael leap out of the Darling nursery window and fly over nighttime Edwardian London the viewer is treated to some of the most thrilling animation ever created for the movies. Later sections of the movie are equally enchanting, and the personage of the villainous Captain Hook is brought to great comic life by Disney animators and the marvelous vocal talent of Hans Conried. As with past Disney efforts, the song score is superb. "Second Star to the Right", "You Can Fly" and "Your Mother and Mine" are highlights in a tuneful soundtrack created by Sammy Cahn and Sammy Fain.PETER PAN holds a special place in my heart. It was the first movie I ever saw. As a 4 year old sitting with my father in an ornate, red carpeted movie palace in Cincinnati, Ohio, looking up at that big screen watching Peter and his friends swooping and flying over the roofs and spires of London was an overwhelming experience. I was hooked, so to speak, and it is an image that has stayed with me ever since. This is the film that initiated my love affair with movies. PETER PAN is one of the iconic films of the Baby Boom Generation.

Peter Pan is directed by Clyde Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson, and Hamilton Luske, and is a post war Disney animated film about a young man named Peter Pan that lives in Neverland, a place in the sky in which no one physically grows up. When Wendy, a teenage girl living in late 19th century Britain, decides she doesn't want to grow up, Peter escorts her and her two younger brothers to Neverland, where an evil pirate named Captain Hook is out to get revenge on Peter Pan.Many older Disney films are considered classics, and Peter Pan is definitely one of them. From the characters, to the top notch animation, Peter Pan is one of the most iconic animated films of all time. Even 60 years later, most everyone has seen Peter Pan, from people who grew up with it when it came out, to children who are growing up with it today. Rewatching Peter Pan, however, I found a few problems with it that stand out along with all of the great aspects of the film.To start, the animation in Peter Pan is absolutely timeless. Every hand drawn fame of the characters or environment looks amazing, and engulfs the viewer into the bright, whimsical place that is Neverland. All of the characters are also excellently animated, especially when in action. The two characters that stand out the most are that of Peter Pan and his rival, Captain Hook. This particular aspect demands that, in each scene, the viewers' eye is drawn to either of the two enemies, which was a very smart move on the filmmakers' part.On the subject of characters, all of the voice acting is very good, with great performances being given by, specifically, that of Bobby Driscoll (as Peter) and Hans Conried (as both Hook and Mr. Darling). These two play off of each other brilliantly, washing away all suspicion of two men recording in a studio. The other actors also do very well, and aren't necessarily outshadowed by that of Driscoll or Conried.One big issue I did find with Peter Pan was the pacing. It may be confusing to read, but the pacing in Peter Pan is so good that it makes a 77 minute film feel like 45 minutes. Each and every scene is so necessary that the film flies by very quickly. One blink could cause major confusion with how a character got from point A to point B, or where the characters even are. It may be hard to comprehend, but, once seeing the film, this problem is understandable.Another issue I found with the film is the writing for Peter Pan himself. Peter Pan, as written in the original play, is a fun loving child that never grows up. He is supposed to be free- spirited, and a caring person. However, the script for this film seems to portray Peter as a cocky, selfish jerk. He feels as if he's above the Darling children, and, at points in the film, is pretty close to being hated by the audience. He begins to get a bit annoying, and has the viewer rooting for Wendy and her brothers, therefore indirectly rooting for Peter, rather than having us root for Peter himself.Overall, Peter Pan isn't as fantastic as I had remembered it to be. Is it a good, timeless film? Yes, it is, but it has a few more problems that I see more clearly now than I used to. Anyone who isn't too hard on films will enjoy Peter Pan, and others will, too, because it is a pretty good movie.

Peter Pan is one of my all time favorite animated films, this is just such a great classic that doesn't get enough notice. This is one of those movies that is so memorable and I'm surprised that honestly this movie isn't in the top 250. Captain Hook is one of my favorite Disney villains if not my number one, he's just plain hilarious and great entertainment. It's odd that I voted more for him and his pirates, just that they seemed like they were the group that you would invite to a party. Watching this movie for so many years, since I was a child, the story still hasn't lost it's touch. It's such a wonderful movie that not only the family could get into, but even I'll just watch it on my own if I want a cute movie. This is one of the best Disney movies of all time and the story of Peter Pan is told so wonderful you can't help but fall in love with it as well.In London, George and Mary Darling's preparations to attend a party are disrupted by the antics of the boys John and Michael, acting out a story about Peter Pan and the pirates, told to them by their older sister Wendy. The father angrily declares that Wendy has gotten too old to continue staying in the nursery with them, and it's time for her to grow up. That night they are visited in the nursery by a pixie named Tinker Bell and cocky Peter Pan, who teaches them to fly and takes them with him to the island of Never Land. A ship of pirates is anchored off Never Land, commanded by Captain Hook with his sidekick Mr Smee. Hook boldly plots to take revenge upon Peter Pan for cutting off his hand, but he trembles when the crocodile that ate it arrives. The crew's restlessness is interrupted by the arrival of Peter and the Darlings. The children easily evade them, and despite a trick by jealous Tinker Bell to have Wendy killed, they meet up with the Lost Boys, six lads in animal-costume pajamas who look to Peter as their leader. John and Michael set off with the Lost Boys to find the island's Indians, who instead capture them, believing them responsible for taking the chief's daughter Tiger Lily. Meanwhile, Peter takes Wendy to see the mermaids, where they see that Hook and Smee have captured Tiger Lily, to coerce her into revealing Peter's hideout. Peter and Wendy free her, and Peter is honored by the tribe. Hook then plots to take advantage of Tink's jealousy of Wendy, tricking her into revealing the location of Peter's lair. The pirates lie in wait and capture the Lost Boys and the Darlings as they exit, leaving behind a time bomb to kill Peter. I'm always going to love Peter Pan, my sister and I still have so much fun with this movie, we constantly rehearse the scene of George, the father, screaming about how the family loves the dog more than him, it's a great scene. But still one scene that always gets me rolling on the floor laughing is when Peter Pan tells Captain Hook to scream in front of his crew and Peter's lost boys that he's a codfish, and you see everyone just cheer and make fun of Captain Hook as well as that blasted crocodile that won't leave him alone. This is such a great movie, if you haven't seen it, I highly recommend it, it's a fun film to watch and will always hold a great place in my heart. 10/10

The film deserves a 10 but this latest DVD transfer by DTS Digital Images has taken all the brilliance of the latest photochemical Technicolor restoration of this film and thrown it out the porthole...Exactly why that is is anybody's guess: Lack of respect of a 100 years of film-making, lack of interest in the film's history, colour-blindness, lack of supervision by Disney's Nine Old Men? A corporate decision to give the film a radical new look? The refusal on the restorers' part to remove their sunglasses? A horrible computer foul-up? You tell me! What is evident is that the colours have been drastically altered, the contrast is subdued and the bitrate is not very high. The colours are slanted, not so much towards yellow as towards gold. Everything is imbued with a golden glow which makes Tinker Bell the real heroine of the story and brings out the golden highlights on everything from Mr. Darling's cuff links to the golden ornaments on Hook's ship. Peter Pan's tunic is at times a sickly wilted parboiled creamed corn colour. There is no true blue sky, just a variant of Egyptian Blue. Neverland sometimes looks like your lazy neighbour's parched garden. The skies are often milky white or beige. The red and blue wallpaper in the Darling children's bedroom is now a brownish mushy mess. Mermaid Lagoon has lost its greenery and turned a repulsive and rather obscene labia pink... Having said this, it is quite possible that the unwary viewer, taken in by the quality of the animation and the beautifully restored sound, will overlook these limitations but it is still no excuse for this abomination, which is miles removed from the colour values of this film that have been preserved for 55 years in the form of its original artwork. It's a wild, one might say irresponsible concept, which some might call "experimental", except that experience has gone horribly wrong. What the digital "restorers" have actually done is to artificially deprive the yellow(negative)/blue(positive) layer of the original 3-strip Technicolor film of about half its information.On the down side, the Redskins have turned a politically correct pink. On the plus side, every brown and yellow surface is made to shine unnaturally, even at night, and lots of things are visible in the dark that weren't before. The reverse is true in the daytime.In the indoor scenes, this slant towards yellow makes sense as it replicates the warm, nostalgic, homey glow of lamplight. Otherwise... The best thing I can say is that it gives the viewer a brand new (though some might say old-fashioned) perspective on a film he's seen maybe too often and the total effect is unreal and reminiscent of a yellowed full-colour illustration in an old picture book. A quick look at the numerous art galleries in the extras will remind you that there should have been a whole lot more green and blue everywhere according to the original artwork.Where the PE really shines, though, is in the sound department which might persuade me to buy this edition (I only rented). The whole soundtrack (dialog, singing voices, orchestra, sound effects) has been completely rethought, refurbished and rechannelled creatively for 5.1 (in French and Spanish too). There is a lot of work evident also in the original mono track. But in the Enhanced home theatre mix (the word "enhanced" appears three times on the cover), very interesting things happen. The dialog is mostly in the center speaker but the music comes regularly through the other four speakers. At some points, individual instruments are made to come through all the surround speakers (like the harp, when Peter appears on the rooftop, instead of the flute, like you might guess). The sound of instruments and voices has been given more resonance. It is less harsh, dry or abrupt. The children voices are almost bearable in this version. There is nothing grating in the brass or in any other part of the orchestra. Everything sounds modern, natural and free-flowing. Of course, the sound effects have been amplified with bass and the mix makes good use of directional effects (Tinker Bell's glockenspiel and celesta, the crocodile's ticking clock, Peter's ghostly voice in Skull Rock). The whole film becomes a symphony where the music takes center stage without overshadowing the character voices, which are now disentangled from the surrounding music. This is an element that could have seriously added to the dream-like quality of the whole, were it no for the off-kilter colours. By comparison, the 5.1 mix of the Special Edition (2002) and the 4.0 mix of the Limited Edition (1999) was only fat, untreated mono with lots of harshness in the loud passages and instability in the soft ones.Well... considering the radical changes made to the colour palette, maybe they could have called this the "Golden Slumbers Edition" or "Pixie Dust Edition" or, better still "Global Warming Edition"... And it's not something you can correct with the Tint button (which adds red or green) or with the Cold setting (which adds a little blue). But it's perfect if you are sound-oriented and an improved sound is very important to you, if you have no memories of what "Peter Pan" used to look like or if you really pictured Hook's harpsichord as being made of solid gold.

Having seen this movie again several times recently, I have learned to appreciate this film a little more. While not nearly as good as some of the more famous Disney films (such as Beauty and the Beast, Bambi or Little Mermaid), it still deserves a 9 because it is head and shoulders better than other kids movies. The animation is very good, pace is fast and the movie is just fun. The negatives are simply a product of the times, in that this is about the most politically incorrect Disney film ever made (perhaps more so than Song of the South). I'm sure that MANY American Indians watch the film and deservedly cringe at the depiction of Indians, who seem rather dumb and sing the song "what makes the red man red?"--an ode to every terrible stereotype about Indians. BUT, I am a strong believer in discussing these things and NOT condemning the entire film. In fact, I am a history teacher and have used the film to talk about these aspects of the film.

After great Disney classics like 'Snow White', 'Pinocchio', 'Bambi' and 'Dumbo' and a nice one like 'Alice in Wonderland' I have to say 'Peter Pan' is a little disappointing. Just a little though. It has all the nice Disney ingredients so it is still pretty entertaining. The crocodile that has eaten the hand of Hook (and the ticking clock) and wants the rest of his body has the funniest scenes, one with Smee (voice by Bill Thompson) in particular. Hook (Hans Conried) and Peter Pan (Bobby Driscoll) have some funny scenes as well. Wendy (Kathryn Beaumont, also voice of Alice in 'Alice in Wonderland') is your usual Disney woman, adorable but sometimes a little too good and brave. All this together makes a nice Disney movie, but not much more than that.

Peter Pan has pretty much everything you could want from a Disney fantasy. There's adventure, romance, swordplay and comedy all mixed together to create a film that effectively captures your imagination. Based on the play and novel by J. M. Barrie, Disney plays the film more as a wide-eyed adventure with the darker and more psychological elements played down. Peter Pan is the boy that never grew up who whisks Wendy and her brothers off to Neverland for the journey of a lifetime. Numerous events take place including meeting mermaids, Indians and of course battling Peter's arch- nemesis Captain Hook. The films narrative is quite straight-forward, the children explore various regions of Neverland and Captain Hook repeatedly tries to get defeat Peter.The characters are the true focus of the film and they are a mixed bag. Peter himself is very assured, confident and a resourceful leader, while his relationship with Wendy does feel genuine. The problem I have with him is that he is somewhat unlikeable. In the original Barrie novel he was egotistical and unpleasant so Disney were accurate, but it means that he isn't an engaging lead because he appears so unsympathetic at times. Tinkerbell suffers exactly the same issue. Her jealousy is understandable and her reactions can be funny, but going as far as trying have Wendy killed is simply too much and it is difficult to get you to care for a character who would go to such vicious extremes. Wendy is nice enough but she's just kind of bland. Kathryn Beaumont gives her a lot of energy, but she doesn't do or say anything of note and is just a dull character in general. The same goes for John and Michael. John is enjoyably geeky and Michael is a cute innocent, but they don't have much character beyond that and they end up feeling like more a side note than the main characters. The Lost Boys are simply forgettable. Giving them their own animal skins is a nice touch, but if it wasn't for that it would be hard to identify them. It is difficult to give so many characters identities, but it's difficult to care about them if they're so bland. The sequences with the Indians are now notorious for the borderline racist portrayal, it never bothered me but I can see how it might offend. Where it does succeed is with its villains. Both Captain Hook and Mr. Smee are brilliant. Hook is the perfect balance of threatening and hilarious, blending both seamlessly at certain times. There's a real intensity and menace to him when he plots against Peter, he shows his cunning in tricking Tinkerbell and we even see him shoot one of his own men for singing at one point. Yet he is just as quick to turn into a quivering mess once the crocodile shows up, cowering at every opportunity and verging on a breakdown. Smee is extremely enjoyable and Bill Thompson does a wonderful job voice wise, he's just too gentle and bumbling to be a pirate. His dialogue and reactions are always funny, while its comedy gold when the two of them are together.The animation for the most part is excellent. It always amazes me at how flowing it is as the characters are always on the go or there always seems to be something taking place, yet everything moves very smoothly and the animation is more restrained whilst retaining the brighter elements of earlier work. Neverland does look like a magical place and I do enjoy the sense of location you get with it. The comedic pieces are fantastic. As said whenever Hook and Smee are together it's funny, but the scenes with the crocodile and Hook are some of the best animated slapstick I've ever seen, everything from how quick the movements are to the sound effects are hysterical. The music is also excellent. The score by Oliver Wallace features a number of effective melodies, whilst songs like 'You Can Fly!' and 'Following the Leader' are very memorable.So on the whole I'd say Peter Pan is something of another flawed masterpiece from Disney. Its only real weakness is its main characters and it's a shame that its sole issue happens to be an important one, Peter is difficult to root for and the Darlings are just a little too dull. With that said I think it excels in every other area. The story is laid-out well, Hook and Smee are great fun, the animation is excellent, it can be very funny at times and the songs stay with you. These stronger elements definitely outweigh the issues with the main characters. It's not Disney's strongest, but it is memorable and can be easily be enjoyed upon repeated viewings.

'Peter Pan' is undoubtedly one of the best of Disney's films. The story isn't too deep or meaningful, as, say, 'Bambi'. The power behind it is the familiarity. Every little kid yearns to haveadventures like Peter, so everyone identifies with the story. To tell the truth, the film is kind of episodic, like an extra-large TV cartoon special. The climax is fittingly climactic, but the final defeat of Hook isn't really powerful enough, which makes it disappointing after all the flashy swordplay. Speaking of Hook, he and Mr Smee are inevitably the scene-stealers, no matter how beloved Peter may be to children. The same way, in Hook/Smee scenes, if you throw in a hungry crocodile, the monstrous reptile will overshadow even Hook. Wendy really looks too old to be horrified about growing up, though, except for the sequences in which she fantasizes about Never Land with all the authenticity of a three-year-old. Never Land is beautiful, to say the least. The lush jungles and the mermaid lagoon is wonderfully brought to life, as is the eery Skull Island. This is the best showcase for the art direction. Also excellent is the detailed, meticulous design of the wooden hideout of the Lost Boys.'Peter Pan' is one of my all-time favorites. It has humor, great animation, and the best part of it is a simplistic story that revolves around the desires of the child within all of us (I'm still twelve, so I never had to look too deep). A must-see for any animation fan, particularly Disney buffs, the young and the young-at-heart.9/10

I don't hate it, I just find certain things unappealing. To get it out of the way. I can't stand Tinker Bell, and I really don't know why a character this cruel and selfish has become a Disney icon!? Heck, she tries to kill off Wendy more than once and is stupid enough to believe Captain Hook! And I really don't like the indian stereotypes in this movie. I hope parents of today will take the talk with their kids about such things in movies and media in general. Besides that we get wonderful animation as usual (the flight scene over London towards Neverland is one of my favourite scenes from any Disney movie) and mostly highly enjoyable characters. Captain Hook and Peter Pan are just hilarious together. The crocodile and Hook make some great slapstick comedy worth a fortune. And a couple of memorable songs like "You Can Fly" and "Following The Leader". The ending should be a reminder to every parent who blame their children for being children. It's a wonderful lesson to learn for the parents.

My parents took me to see Walt Disney's "Peter Pan" in 1953 when I was 5-years old. I was completely hooked. I was imprinted with this movie the way future generations would be imprinted with "Star Wars". For months after, my anxious parents wished they had opted for deep-pile carpet rather than highly-polished floorboards as I leapt from every piece of furniture in the house aided by imaginary pixie dust.Disney's take on the story of the boy who never grew up and his adventures with the Darling children in Neverland may have been even more influential, because I ended up earning my living as an artist for the last 50 years.It wasn't until 25 years later that I saw the film again and I must admit I was apprehensive. Would I be disappointed and see flaws that were not apparent to an overawed child? Well, that didn't happen. Instead, I was overawed all over again with the mastery of the whole thing.But of course, the film was more that just stunning visuals; there was also the story that was adapted from J. M. Barrie's famous book. And the film has copped plenty of flack over the years - racism and sexism being a couple of the heavier charges laid against it.The depiction of the Native Americans probably wouldn't get off the drawing board these days, but back in the 50's just about every race and creed had their own cinematic stereotypes, which were repeated in movie after movie. To be totally fair, Disney was actually following the lead of Barrie himself who refers to the Indians as 'Redskins' throughout his story and deals with them in the broadest of stereotypes with a surprising amount of violence thrown in.As for being sexist, possibly Tinkerbell has come in for the most attention with her voluptuous figure and occasional hip wiggling - she is referred to as Twerkerbell in one critique of the film. But again, rather than just the Disney artists over-vamping an innocent fairy, here is J. M. Barrie's description of Tink: "exquisitely gowned in a skeleton leaf, cut low and square, through which her figure could be seen to the best advantage. She was slightly inclined to embonpoint". That archaic word means a plump, hourglass figure. I rest my case.To see how good this film is, you only need to compare it with the sequel, "Return to Neverland" made in 2002. With bigger eyes and individual shading, the characters seem more cartoony, lacking much of the warmth and style of the earlier version.There have been plenty of stage and film versions of the story over the decades, but my favourite is still Walt Disney's 1953 film; even after 62 years, it has lost none of its magic for me.

There are better Disney films to be seen; among them are Finding Nemo, Snow White, and Beauty and the Beast. However, this IS among their best, and one of my favorites. While entirely politically incorrect, this work retains the heart and love typically demonstrated by early Disney films.This is a grand adventure which provides you with superior animation, a beautiful soundtrack, well defined characters, and-for many-fond memories.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend :.

JM Barrie's original 1911 novel is one of my all-time favorite books. It's sweet, surreal, dark, strange, and ultimately haunting. It's been adapted hundreds of times for film and stage, and the 1953 Disney classic is one of the best-known versions. Does it hold up? Yes... but also no.I'll start with the things I loved.
First is the art and animation. Simply gorgeous. Like all Disney films, the animation is top-tier, but Peter Pan manages to stand out even among the other Disney classics. The scene of Peter and the Darling children flying through London, the lush jungles of Neverland, the pirate-caused mayhem... It's simply amazing. Major props to the Disney animators who brought this beauty to life.The music (with the exception of one painfully dated song, see below) is also fun, which is typical for Disney films.Some of the characters are also splendidly portrayed. Wendy (perfectly voiced by Kathryn Beaumont) is spot-on, as is Nana the nurse-dog. This version of Tinkerbell is in many ways the definitive version, and I like that she captures all of the malice and sassiness that's present in the original book.The Tick Tock crocodile loses the menace of the original, but the Disney-fied version of the croc is still very enjoyable in its own right.But the best characters are undoubtedly Captain Hook and Mr. Smee. Although I love Barrie's enigmatic Hook from the original play and book (and Jason Isaac's ingenious portrayal in the 2003 live-action version), the Disney Hook is a brilliant comedy creation and a winner in his own right. Smee is equally fun and effortlessly wins big laughs.Truly the most hilarious scenes feature Hook and Smee. One of the highlights is the battle at Skull Rock. Although it lacks the delicious sinister mood of the original book and the 2003 version, I still find Disney's take on the scene to be extremely enjoyable and often laugh-out-loud funny. Hook frantically attempting to escape the croc's jaws, all the while screaming for Smee to come to his aid, is some of the best slapstick ever put to animation. The scene reaches its peak when Smee swings his oar, meaning to brain the croc, only to have Hook emerge from the croc's jaws and take the clobbering instead. Perfectly timed!Another scene that showcases the slapstick brilliance of Hook and Smee is the bit where Smee attempts to sooth the frazzled pirate with a shave.
Smee wraps Hook's scruffy face in a hot towel, but fails to notice when a female seagull flies down and uses the towel as her nest, settling in like a brooding hen. Smee lathers what appears to be the captain's face ...but is really the gull's rear end. The scene only escalates from there, with Smee shaving off feathers and exposing the seagull's bare bottom. There's a classic double-take reaction as the seagull, upon having her bottom patted with aftershave, finally turns around and gasps in horror. She quickly leaves the towel "nest," flying away while crying and attempting to cover her clean-shaven fanny.
Smee, meanwhile, finds the empty towel and mistakingly believes that Hook's head has been shaved off! Cue the search for the missing pirate head. The scene is simply a must-watch for fans of slapstick mayhem.So the positives: beautiful art and animation (thanks to the talented animators), mostly great music, several awesome characters, and side-splitting comedy.The negatives:In some ways, the Disney version dumbs down aspects of the original. Mr. Darling is reduced to a raving jerk instead of the hypocritically immature but lovable father Barrie presents in the book.Even worse is Peter Pan himself. Barrie writes him as a true child: eager, selfish, and ignorant, but ultimately tragic in that he will never grow up and loses and forgets everything and everyone he loves.
In contrast, the Disney version of Peter acts like a rude '50s American greaser. He's unlikable, and it's no surprise the filmmakers themselves criticized the character after the film's release.And finally, worst of all, is the portrayal of the "Natives." The original book does include some poor stereotypes and terms, but nothing compared to the racism of "What Makes the Redman Red." All of the Natives (except the mute Tiger Lily) are drawn as the exact same caricature: big noses, bright red skin, ugly faces. It's embarrassing.
I don't agree with censorship and don't think the film should be re-edited. But parents should use those scenes as a chance to talk with their children about harmful stereotypes. When I watched this with my 8-year-old, I made sure to discuss how such racism was wrong then and is wrong now.These weak points are clear blemishes on what could have been a great adaptation, but despite these flaws, I still find the film enjoyable overall thanks to the amazing animation, music, comedy, and several great characters.

"Disney movies" and "children's movies" are often used interchangeably, but I believe that Peter Pan is a truly captivating story for both young and old. As a child I was entranced by the beautiful colors and artwork, the mysterious fairies and their magical dust, and the elusive character of Peter Pan. I wanted nothing more than to catch a fairy and keep her as my own. I imagined her teaching me to fly and then leading the way to Neverland. I also found myself yelling at the television near the end of the movie when Peter refuses to go back to London with Wendy. They should get married, darn it! They're perfect together! Hey, I was a kid...Now, as an adult, I see the story for what I believe Sir James Barrie was trying to say. One stage tradition holds that Captain Hook and Mr. Darling are played by the same actor. Disney stuck with this by using the same voice actor. I believe that Barrie was trying to speak on poor father-child relations, which are still present today. Captain Hook is scary. Children fear and often do not understand their fathers. On a similar note is the crocodile which Hook so deeply fears. The crocodile swallowed a clock (as well as Hook's hand) and now chases Hook around. I believe that this symbolizes a man's fear of time. Or rather a father's fear that he is not close with his children and must hurry up before it's too late.I fell in love with Peter Pan (both the character and the movie) at a very young age (it was the first movie I ever saw) and continue to love it today. Young or old, boy or girl, man or woman, this movie will warm your heart and hopefully teach you a lesson or two.

When it comes to pre-CGI animation from Disney Studios' heyday (1942-1958) - "Peter Pan" is (IMO) one of the top-of-the-line productions (on all counts).But, of course, since "Peter Pan" comes from the early 1950s - The viewer cannot harshly judge its story-line by today's "politically correct" standards. 'Cause, otherwise, if they do - Then - This children's picture will be completely ruined for them once the characters have entered into the fantastic realm of Neverland.

The first time I ever had the pleasure of watching the Peter Pan story was with the Steven Spielberg production of Hook.I found the Walt Disney 1953 version of Peter Pan outstanding in every way. Like all of the Disney animated classics I can honestly say when you sit down to watch one you just forget that it is an animated feature that you are viewing and Peter Pan is no exception.Peter Pan is the story of a boy who refuses to grow up.  This production has so much to offer the viewer with the humour, music and action scenes especially with Peter Pan and Hook.  But we must not forget Wendy and her two brothers John, Michael and of cause Tinker Bell, the Lost Boys and the magical island in the heavens called Never Land where the story takes place.
So if you like a fun filled action adventure Peter Pan is certainly for you.

Good watch, probably won't watch again, but can recommend for fans of Peter Pan that have seen other versions.Wow, I feel as if I've never seen this movie before: this is something that happens when you learn to watch movies critically and rewatch childhood favorites.I'm continuously enlightened to how awful Walt Disney was. This movie is filled with insensitive nonsense, particularly to Native Americans, and the majority of the characters are just awful people, to include Peter Pan and Tinkerbell. Wendy is the only "pure" character in the entire movie, and I feel as if I'm reaching there. Tiger Lily might be a competitor, but she doesn't DO much, so it's hard to tell.With such a wonderful premise, and Disney's level of production value, you would think this would hold up, even after 70 years, but I honestly am beginning to think this was so widely accepted for a lack of options.Don't get me wrong, the actual story is both "close enough" to the original story, and well enough structured that a reboot would probably be very close to this version. It's all stylistic choices in both animation, dialogue, and character presentation that could easily be cleaned up, and likely should have been.While I could probably rant for an hour just on the "love" triangle happening in this (I am completely in camp Tinkerbell), this is supposed to be "boy who never grew up". While that lends to the jealousy factors, the amount and inconsistency of details on everything about the place being magical tends to distract from it.You'll notice that Peter no longer has human ears, he has pixie ears, and the boys supposedly killed and skinned giant animals so they could wear their skins as pajamas: where are the rest of the animals?The pirates have been there long enough to get restless, though there are enough of them left, despite Hook just shooting them dead on occasion, but not long enough to mutiny or properly search the one island, but long enough to have a weirdly specific history between Peter Pan and Hook and the crocodile.It's a weird movie: it's still worth a watch, but I'd watch it with your kids as opposed to just on their own.

I have seen this cartoon movie many times and I liked the music and animation and the story, but unfortunately some of the characters are bad like "Peter Pan." and "Tinkerbell". Yes Hook is a villain but a victim of bullying and now has a disability caused by the jerk Peter Pan, decapitating his hand and throwing his hand to the crocodile, thankfully was never shown or it would've gone from PG to PG-13.The story starts off, George is going to the party and his family members his wife his kids, Wendy, John, Michael ignore him and they don't ask if he's all right since he tripped and fell going over, they run over to the dog instead, why didn't they also ask their dad if he was okay, that scene scared me. Anyways he puts Nana the dog outside, Then George and Mary goes out for the evening.Peter Pan and Tinkerbell breaks into the Darling house to find his shadow. Peter wakes up Wendy, she sews the shadow on Peter, Tinkerbell pulls on Wendy's hair and Peter stops her, John and Michael wakes up. Peter puts the pixie dust so Wendy and the children can all levitate and fly, the 4 of them sneaks out and flies toward another planet to Neverland where nobody grows up yet they're mortal and can get hurt or die.Hook has psychological problems and a disability missing his left hand, which causes him to be a murderer and a kidnapper, unforgiving and seek revenge and hold a grudge against Peter. Peter and the 3 kids arrive at Neverland, they're attacked and they seek safety from the cannonballs. Tinkerbell tricks the lost boys to attacking Wendy and she gets banished by Peter. Peter takes Wendy to the lagoon while John and Micheal leads the lost boys on a hiking trip which they eventually got captured by Indians. The Indian Chief is angry and falsely accuses the lost boys for kidnapping his daughter Tiger Lily.Meanwhile Peter and Wendy meets the mermaids, but Peter makes fun of Wendy getting wet and she gets angry. Then Peter sees Hook and Smee with Tiger Lily who is captured. Then Peter gets into a fight with hook and laughs and bullies Hook who is attacked by the crocodile.Peter is declared the hero and is honored by the Chief and the Indians hold a celebration for saving Tiger Lily, Wendy didn't like the party and goes back to Peters hideout.Then Hook becomes sick then heard rumors Peter banished Tink, he then has his assistant Smee kidnap Tinkerbell where she lead them to Peters hideout. Peter is annoyed and disappointed with the lost boys for wanting to leave Neverland, Wendy, John, Michael and the lost boys gets kidnapped by Hooks pirates. Hook becomes a terrorist by planting a time bomb in Peters hideout.The next morning, Wendy, John, Michael and lost boys have a choice to make, join Hooks crew or walk the plank, Tinkerbell quickly flies over to warn Peter and saves him from getting blown up and survives, Wendy walks the plank and Peter saves her, the lost boys get into a swashbuckling war against the pirates, Peter once again goes on a duel with Hook, he then wins and once again makes fun of Captain Hook who falls in the water and gets attacked by the crocodile and the pirates escape in their lifeboats. Peter makes the ship hover and flies them safely home to their parents.I have a big problem with this movie, first of all I do not like Peter Pan, he's spoiled, arrogant, selfish, a showoff, rude to people, only cares about himself unless tragedy strikes. He's a bully, he mocks disabled people like Hook which made me really mad and almost becomes a murderer himself, yes there have been people in real life that have been attacked or killed by the Crocodile.The controversial scene where Hook gets brutally attacked by the Crocodile scares me every time and I get sensitive to it since I don't find it funny at all, I can't believe Disney is still showing graphic violence in this cartoon I want them to stop showing it.He bullied Wendy at one point for letting the mermaids bully Wendy which I thought was uncalled for. He also shows off at the Indians ceremony. Yes even though he did some good deeds to save Wendy and Tiger Lily and Tinkerbell. He also put the 3 kids in peril and didn't watch over their safety.That isn't enough to make me cheer for Peter. Peter Pan overall shows no mercy to the pirates and is rude and is very bossy and mean to everybody and I think he should've been a labeled a villain not Hook.I also didn't like Tinkerbell because she's annoying like Navi the fairy, she bullied Wendy and almost got her killed and led Hook to Peter's hideout.I actually liked Hook in this movie, yes even though he's labeled a villain, I don't think he was a very bad villain, unlike Snow White's Stepmother who's a murderer and serial killer. I felt very sorry for Hook the entire time and I did wish he did win the fight instead of Peter Pan, I rooted for Hook. Yes he did commit terrorist attacks, shot one of his annoying singing pirates, kidnapping Tiger Lily, planting a time bomb in Peter's hideout. I wish that someone could've taught Hook forgiveness and help him to not seek revenge and be happy and a loving pirate.I also liked Mr. Smee who was cheerful and easygoing and a friendly pirate and tried to help Hook out, he was also my favorite sidekick villain. I liked the part where he accidentally shaved off the seagull's feathers off his bottom exposing the seagulls bare bottom. I think Mr. Smee should've been a hero and not a sidekick villain.I did like the crocodile and felt bad for it when it became attracted and addicted to eating Hook.I felt bad for George their father and also for Nana the dog. who tripped and had an accident in the bedroom, that's a lesson for you kids, never ever leave a wagon in the middle of the room, it's a hazard even in real life.I wish that the Disney storyboard people had spent more time giving Indians more personally and screen time and the reason why they attacked the lost boys and why they feuded with each other, I'm interested in Indian characters. Also the mermaids weren't given enough screen time which I felt letdown.I liked George, Mary, Nana, Wendy, John, Michael, the lost boys, the Indian tribe, and Captain Hook's pirates, and the Crocodile they were very fun and enjoyable.But I hated Peter Pan with a passion and his annoying fairy Tink. If I could change this movie, I would have Wendy help Captain Hook out with his personal problems and get him to change and give up his villainous ways and think happy thoughts and learn how to forgive other people, Hook, Smee and the pirates needed a mother for sure. I would've had both Peter Pan and Tinkerbell get banished from Neverland and grow up for once and never come back, good riddance to Peter Pan the jerk and bully.It's too bad Peter Pan is the real villain star in this cartoon and not Hook. I would've liked him better if Peter wasn't a bully and a showoff. Yes this is also a Disney classic but there's better Peter Pan films to watch, I highly recommend "Hook" 1991 with the late Robin Williams, or also "Peter Pan" 2003 an amazing live action movie. Or "Neverland" 2011, those Peter Pan films are worth your time. Also the SNES game "Hook" 1992 is also worth your time.This Disney cartoon should've been Rated PG-13 for scary scenes, violence, peril, smoking, alcohol, terrorist attack.

"Peter Pan" is without a doubt one of Disney's classics, alongside animated features such as "Snow White" and "Pinocchio."  It captures the imagination just as J.M. Barrie's novel and play have.  In the movie, the eternally young Peter Pan takes Wendy Darling and her brothers to Neverland, a place of the imagination, populated by Indians, mermaids and pirates.  Captain Hook, voiced by Hans Conreid, will always be a classic villain, and his henchman, Smee, is a perfect comic relief.  There are many funny scenes and good animated sequences.  Beneath it all, the story speaks to the kid in all of us.  We remember how important it can be to remain young at heart.

Watching this movie 15 years after probably the last time I saw it, I still found myself laughing every time Peter Pan took on Hook, it was all arranged for laughs by Disney to make a mockery of the dear Captain Hook.My favorite character in the movie was not Peter, Hook, Wendy, Wendy's brothers or The Lost boys; my favorite character was the Crocodile. I can't just get it out of my head how he seems to be so creative in trying to catch Captain Hook, my favorite was when he pushed aside the boat that Hook was trying to jump into and he caught Hook in his mouth.Disney's Peter Pan animation was done in 1953 and it is based on the play Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up in 1904 and a novel in 1911 by J. M. Barrie. It is the 14th film in the Walt Disney Animated Classics series.It features the adventures of Peter Pan a boy who could fly and wouldn't grow up and lives in Neverland with the lost boys. His partner or side kick is Tinker Bell a fairy. The story also features his adventures with Wendy and her brothers, as they learn to fly to Neverland, meet the mermaids, Tiger Lily and the red Indians. They also battle Captain Hook and his crew.Disney out did themselves in this money spinning classic, that raked in more than 20 times its production cost (making over 80 million in the box office), Peter Pan became a source of controversy in its stereotyping of its Characters, especially the Native Indians. If not for the time it was made such a movie will never leave the production board, due to its referring of the Indians as red and comparing them to hunting animals.Peter Pan was the last and final Disney film in which all nine members of Disney's Nine Old Men worked together as directing animators and it was the last movie that was distributed by RKO Radio Pictures before Walt Disney's founding of his own distribution company, Buena Vista Distribution.Peter Pan has remained a classic over the years for children and adults alike and it is one of my best Disney animations. I will like to say it is a nice watch and something to own and keep for later as you will love to see it years after, just to see the two (Peter and Hook) go at it again and if you are like me to see the Croc try to get Hook again.www.lagsreviews.com

This Disney cartoon classic offers flights of fancy that appeal directly to children's fertile imaginations. The ability to fly and be a devil-may-care youngster and never grow up, exploring a fantasy island of Indians, pirates, mermaids and mysterious caves is a powerful magnetic pull for young dreamers. The production's artwork is beautiful, and the characters and catchy tunes add to the pleasure of watching this movie. Peter Pan is nearly upstaged by his companion Tinker Bell, a temperamental pixie who is jealous and possessive of Peter's friendship with Wendy. Captain Hook and his shadow, the crocodile, the sniveling Smee, the beautiful mermaids, and the stoic Tiger Lily are all memorable characters. The catchy tunes also make this adventure one of Disney's best.

This is one of the most charming, magical movies ever!  It is an adaptation of James Barrie's Peter Pan, the story of the boy who wouldn't grow up.  It starts in London, where a very proper Wendy has one night left in the nursery before she most grow up.  Her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Darling are out for an office party, and the nursemaid, a dog named Nana is tied up outside for the night.  Peter Pan comes and takes Wendy and her brothers John and Micheal away to Neverland, "the second star to the right and staight on til morning", with the help of the pixie dust from the jealous little pixie Tinkerbell. A sprinkling of the dust makes them fly, just like Peter does. Once in Neverland they encounter mermaids, Indians, and the foppish, but evil villian Captain Hook.  This beloved story will bring you back to your childhood and this delightful score will be hard to forget!  It is sure to have you singing along!  This is a wonderful movie that can be enjoyed by children and adults alike!

Disney's Peter Pan adapts a play and a novel that focuses on dreaming when you are young. The main characters are three children who get visited by Peter Pan, the ultimate child. Peter never grows and neither do his friends the Lost Boys, who all live in Neverland. Wendy Darling, the protagonist, is a relatable young girl whose courage and empathy are key to her relationship with her brothers John and Michael. The narrator tells us Wendy is the eldest and the authority in Peter Pan stories. John is a smart young man and Michael is almost a baby so there is a consistent gimmick of Michael repeating what John said without realizing it. They have enough comedy and personality to carry their scenes. When they first appear, they are playing make-believe posing as Peter Pan and Captain Hook already. I suspect their mother told Wendy and her brothers the stories. Mr. & Mrs. Darling are polar opposites, the father being the logical type who shuns their imagination. He is humiliated and ignored by his family because of his negative attitude, but when he is punishing the dog Nana he shows a more compassionate side.Once the parents leave, he mentions Peter Pan as he appears flying above the roofs of the house. He is only a silhouette at first until Tinker Bell lights up his face. This is a magical moment, followed by Peter entering the house claiming to be looking for his shadow. Wendy, who had the shadow kept in a drawer, stitches it back to Peter Pan and is invited to Neverland as a reward. She and her brothers learn how to fly with the dust of Tinker Bell, who is jealous of Wendy's attempt at kissing Pan. I don't find any songs from Peter Pan to be very good or memorable. "You Can Fly" is the only one I remember because they repeat it about three times in the movie.I feel the island of Neverland is the key issue. It's the first thing we see in the movie: the Second Star to the Right. When the kids go flying into it there's a great transition from a star into a solar system, which is upside down given the island is sitting on a sea in the sky. We meet Captain Hook, whose clothes and personality compose one of the great iconic Disney villain designs. I think the film succeeds in the representation of Pan and Hook. Their ongoing rivalry is something fun to pay attention to. Peter Pan is arrogant and sort of a scoundrel but you are always on his side, and even though Captain Hook was made by design for children to laugh at his misfortune, he is beloved as well. My main critique involves that the things that Peter shows to Wendy, her brothers, and the Lost Boys do not awake any sense of wonder in me. I think there was a very high bar to clear in adapting a magical place called "Neverland" where kids never grow old and adults are the enemy, and the film runs short of ideas after meeting some Mermaids and the "Indians". The Native Americans are drawn with exaggerated features, they are called "Injuns" and there is an entire musical sequence called "What Made the Red Man Red?", yet the most offensive thing about the portrayal is the simple idea that one of the "magical creatures" of the island (and the one that takes the most screentime) is this excessive stereotype. If you are going to alter the culture of a people in this way, you might as well create a fictional inhabitant for the island. There's no need for them to be Natives if you are going to say that their skin is red because one of them blushed one day.The quarrel between Peter and Hook features good scenes like the one where he saves the chief's daughter Tiger Lily. She's actually the only well-proportioned facial representation of a Native because drawing ugly women has never been Disney's strong suit. The fight between Peter and Hook is exciting, and we see it reprised in the climax of the film. The most boring sequence is Wendy singing the song about mothers. It reminds me of Mary Poppin's "Feed the Birds". Who thought this was a good idea? The kids don't want to see the characters singing slowly standing still. And Peter Pan is an hour shorter, there's even less room to do this. One of the best character designs goes to Tinker Bell, who emanates light and flies in a string of pixie dust. She serves a purpose in the story once Captain Hook sends his second-in-command to steal her. They then persuade her to betray Peter, and out of jealousy, she complies. Hook then imprisons her and kidnaps Wendy and the Lost Boys. He sends a bomb to Peter Pan, and Tinker Bell manages to escape just in time to reach Peter when the bomb is about to go off. I hate this part because the bomb literally explodes in Peter's face. The characters in the boat hear the explosion and assume Peter Pan is dead. It's true that you should lead the audience to believe Peter is dead (which of course he isn't), but making him survive a bomb explosion without a scratch is not the solution to that problem.Peter fights Captain Hook and out of compassion decides to forgive his life, which shows honor in his heart. Hook betrays his trust and attempts to backstab him, and in response, he gets what is coming to him when he falls on top of Tick Tock the Crock, a crocodile who's been tormenting him throughout the film. He does not die on screen, leaving the door open for possible sequels; the ongoing repetition of the events is a common theme in the movie. The film reminds me of The Wizard of Oz: at the beginning Wendy goes flying into the world she's always dreamed of, and when she goes back home her mother sees her waking up at the side of the window. Probably in hopes that young children wouldn't come away feeling cheated, the allusion the movie makes when Wendy's father recognizes Peter's ship is that Peter Pan visits once in a generation and "growing up" makes them forget him, Peter Pan representing the "spirit of youth". The opening lines of the film are "All this has happened before. And it will all happen again." This is a wonderful sentiment, I just hope that the next time it happens the adventure is better.6.5/10.

If Walt Disney had never made another cartoon feature after BAMBI in 1942 he would still be remembered as the man who transformed the animated full length film into an art form. SNOW WHITE , PINOCCHIO , FANTASIA and BAMBI all belong on the list of the greatest achievements in American Film. Disney's next phase in full length animation took place after World War 2 and although these subsequent works may not match the brilliance and creativity of the earlier films, they still possess the superb craftsmanship the Disney artists are famous for. Missing from the new batch of films was the meticulous background detail that distinguished the earlier projects. Starting with Cinderella in 1950, the animators seemed to concentrate more on clean, uncluttered backgrounds but the drawing was just as professional as before , characters still brought to life with fluid, lifelike movements. Colors tended to be bright and splashy, but the cartoonists also knew when subtlety was called for, and scenes occurring at night were done with convincing atmosphere and shadows. The success of Cinderella confirmed that the movie-going public was still willing to be entertained and moved by a cartoon movie, and Disney and his artists forged ahead with an impressive array of animated features that to this day remain models of the Art Form. Perhaps the greatest of these was PETER PAN, first released in 1953. Based on J.M. Barrie's immortal play and novel about the little boy who doesn't want to grow up, PETER PAN had been a project stewing in Disney's mind for years. It wasn't until after the War that work on the film really took off. When the movie was completed and finally released to theaters, Disney seemed rather ambivalent about its achievement. He had a hard time defining who Peter actually was as a character but to millions of children in movie theaters all over the world, that didn't seem to matter. PETER PAN is not very deep story-wise. It lacks the heart and sentiment of the Barrie original, which to some degree is a good thing. Past stage versions and the spectacular 1924 Paramount film version could be cloyingly sentimental at times.The Disney version is light and breezy and moves at a clip. The London sequence which opens the picture is spectacular in both the backdrops and the animation itself. When Peter, Wendy, John and Michael leap out of the Darling nursery window and fly over nighttime Edwardian London the viewer is treated to some of the most thrilling animation ever created for the movies. Later sections of the movie are equally enchanting, and the personage of the villainous Captain Hook is brought to great comic life by Disney animators and the marvelous vocal talent of Hans Conried. As with past Disney efforts, the song score is superb. "Second Star to the Right", "You Can Fly" and "Your Mother and Mine" are highlights in a tuneful soundtrack created by Sammy Cahn and Sammy Fain.PETER PAN holds a special place in my heart. It was the first movie I ever saw. As a 4 year old sitting with my father in an ornate, red carpeted movie palace in Cincinnati, Ohio, looking up at that big screen watching Peter and his friends swooping and flying over the roofs and spires of London was an overwhelming experience. I was hooked, so to speak, and it is an image that has stayed with me ever since. This is the film that initiated my love affair with movies. PETER PAN is one of the iconic films of the Baby Boom Generation.

Peter Pan is directed by Clyde Geronimi, Wilfred Jackson, and Hamilton Luske, and is a post war Disney animated film about a young man named Peter Pan that lives in Neverland, a place in the sky in which no one physically grows up. When Wendy, a teenage girl living in late 19th century Britain, decides she doesn't want to grow up, Peter escorts her and her two younger brothers to Neverland, where an evil pirate named Captain Hook is out to get revenge on Peter Pan.Many older Disney films are considered classics, and Peter Pan is definitely one of them. From the characters, to the top notch animation, Peter Pan is one of the most iconic animated films of all time. Even 60 years later, most everyone has seen Peter Pan, from people who grew up with it when it came out, to children who are growing up with it today. Rewatching Peter Pan, however, I found a few problems with it that stand out along with all of the great aspects of the film.To start, the animation in Peter Pan is absolutely timeless. Every hand drawn fame of the characters or environment looks amazing, and engulfs the viewer into the bright, whimsical place that is Neverland. All of the characters are also excellently animated, especially when in action. The two characters that stand out the most are that of Peter Pan and his rival, Captain Hook. This particular aspect demands that, in each scene, the viewers' eye is drawn to either of the two enemies, which was a very smart move on the filmmakers' part.On the subject of characters, all of the voice acting is very good, with great performances being given by, specifically, that of Bobby Driscoll (as Peter) and Hans Conried (as both Hook and Mr. Darling). These two play off of each other brilliantly, washing away all suspicion of two men recording in a studio. The other actors also do very well, and aren't necessarily outshadowed by that of Driscoll or Conried.One big issue I did find with Peter Pan was the pacing. It may be confusing to read, but the pacing in Peter Pan is so good that it makes a 77 minute film feel like 45 minutes. Each and every scene is so necessary that the film flies by very quickly. One blink could cause major confusion with how a character got from point A to point B, or where the characters even are. It may be hard to comprehend, but, once seeing the film, this problem is understandable.Another issue I found with the film is the writing for Peter Pan himself. Peter Pan, as written in the original play, is a fun loving child that never grows up. He is supposed to be free- spirited, and a caring person. However, the script for this film seems to portray Peter as a cocky, selfish jerk. He feels as if he's above the Darling children, and, at points in the film, is pretty close to being hated by the audience. He begins to get a bit annoying, and has the viewer rooting for Wendy and her brothers, therefore indirectly rooting for Peter, rather than having us root for Peter himself.Overall, Peter Pan isn't as fantastic as I had remembered it to be. Is it a good, timeless film? Yes, it is, but it has a few more problems that I see more clearly now than I used to. Anyone who isn't too hard on films will enjoy Peter Pan, and others will, too, because it is a pretty good movie.

Peter Pan is one of my all time favorite animated films, this is just such a great classic that doesn't get enough notice. This is one of those movies that is so memorable and I'm surprised that honestly this movie isn't in the top 250. Captain Hook is one of my favorite Disney villains if not my number one, he's just plain hilarious and great entertainment. It's odd that I voted more for him and his pirates, just that they seemed like they were the group that you would invite to a party. Watching this movie for so many years, since I was a child, the story still hasn't lost it's touch. It's such a wonderful movie that not only the family could get into, but even I'll just watch it on my own if I want a cute movie. This is one of the best Disney movies of all time and the story of Peter Pan is told so wonderful you can't help but fall in love with it as well.In London, George and Mary Darling's preparations to attend a party are disrupted by the antics of the boys John and Michael, acting out a story about Peter Pan and the pirates, told to them by their older sister Wendy. The father angrily declares that Wendy has gotten too old to continue staying in the nursery with them, and it's time for her to grow up. That night they are visited in the nursery by a pixie named Tinker Bell and cocky Peter Pan, who teaches them to fly and takes them with him to the island of Never Land. A ship of pirates is anchored off Never Land, commanded by Captain Hook with his sidekick Mr Smee. Hook boldly plots to take revenge upon Peter Pan for cutting off his hand, but he trembles when the crocodile that ate it arrives. The crew's restlessness is interrupted by the arrival of Peter and the Darlings. The children easily evade them, and despite a trick by jealous Tinker Bell to have Wendy killed, they meet up with the Lost Boys, six lads in animal-costume pajamas who look to Peter as their leader. John and Michael set off with the Lost Boys to find the island's Indians, who instead capture them, believing them responsible for taking the chief's daughter Tiger Lily. Meanwhile, Peter takes Wendy to see the mermaids, where they see that Hook and Smee have captured Tiger Lily, to coerce her into revealing Peter's hideout. Peter and Wendy free her, and Peter is honored by the tribe. Hook then plots to take advantage of Tink's jealousy of Wendy, tricking her into revealing the location of Peter's lair. The pirates lie in wait and capture the Lost Boys and the Darlings as they exit, leaving behind a time bomb to kill Peter. I'm always going to love Peter Pan, my sister and I still have so much fun with this movie, we constantly rehearse the scene of George, the father, screaming about how the family loves the dog more than him, it's a great scene. But still one scene that always gets me rolling on the floor laughing is when Peter Pan tells Captain Hook to scream in front of his crew and Peter's lost boys that he's a codfish, and you see everyone just cheer and make fun of Captain Hook as well as that blasted crocodile that won't leave him alone. This is such a great movie, if you haven't seen it, I highly recommend it, it's a fun film to watch and will always hold a great place in my heart. 10/10

The film deserves a 10 but this latest DVD transfer by DTS Digital Images has taken all the brilliance of the latest photochemical Technicolor restoration of this film and thrown it out the porthole...Exactly why that is is anybody's guess: Lack of respect of a 100 years of film-making, lack of interest in the film's history, colour-blindness, lack of supervision by Disney's Nine Old Men? A corporate decision to give the film a radical new look? The refusal on the restorers' part to remove their sunglasses? A horrible computer foul-up? You tell me! What is evident is that the colours have been drastically altered, the contrast is subdued and the bitrate is not very high. The colours are slanted, not so much towards yellow as towards gold. Everything is imbued with a golden glow which makes Tinker Bell the real heroine of the story and brings out the golden highlights on everything from Mr. Darling's cuff links to the golden ornaments on Hook's ship. Peter Pan's tunic is at times a sickly wilted parboiled creamed corn colour. There is no true blue sky, just a variant of Egyptian Blue. Neverland sometimes looks like your lazy neighbour's parched garden. The skies are often milky white or beige. The red and blue wallpaper in the Darling children's bedroom is now a brownish mushy mess. Mermaid Lagoon has lost its greenery and turned a repulsive and rather obscene labia pink... Having said this, it is quite possible that the unwary viewer, taken in by the quality of the animation and the beautifully restored sound, will overlook these limitations but it is still no excuse for this abomination, which is miles removed from the colour values of this film that have been preserved for 55 years in the form of its original artwork. It's a wild, one might say irresponsible concept, which some might call "experimental", except that experience has gone horribly wrong. What the digital "restorers" have actually done is to artificially deprive the yellow(negative)/blue(positive) layer of the original 3-strip Technicolor film of about half its information.On the down side, the Redskins have turned a politically correct pink. On the plus side, every brown and yellow surface is made to shine unnaturally, even at night, and lots of things are visible in the dark that weren't before. The reverse is true in the daytime.In the indoor scenes, this slant towards yellow makes sense as it replicates the warm, nostalgic, homey glow of lamplight. Otherwise... The best thing I can say is that it gives the viewer a brand new (though some might say old-fashioned) perspective on a film he's seen maybe too often and the total effect is unreal and reminiscent of a yellowed full-colour illustration in an old picture book. A quick look at the numerous art galleries in the extras will remind you that there should have been a whole lot more green and blue everywhere according to the original artwork.Where the PE really shines, though, is in the sound department which might persuade me to buy this edition (I only rented). The whole soundtrack (dialog, singing voices, orchestra, sound effects) has been completely rethought, refurbished and rechannelled creatively for 5.1 (in French and Spanish too). There is a lot of work evident also in the original mono track. But in the Enhanced home theatre mix (the word "enhanced" appears three times on the cover), very interesting things happen. The dialog is mostly in the center speaker but the music comes regularly through the other four speakers. At some points, individual instruments are made to come through all the surround speakers (like the harp, when Peter appears on the rooftop, instead of the flute, like you might guess). The sound of instruments and voices has been given more resonance. It is less harsh, dry or abrupt. The children voices are almost bearable in this version. There is nothing grating in the brass or in any other part of the orchestra. Everything sounds modern, natural and free-flowing. Of course, the sound effects have been amplified with bass and the mix makes good use of directional effects (Tinker Bell's glockenspiel and celesta, the crocodile's ticking clock, Peter's ghostly voice in Skull Rock). The whole film becomes a symphony where the music takes center stage without overshadowing the character voices, which are now disentangled from the surrounding music. This is an element that could have seriously added to the dream-like quality of the whole, were it no for the off-kilter colours. By comparison, the 5.1 mix of the Special Edition (2002) and the 4.0 mix of the Limited Edition (1999) was only fat, untreated mono with lots of harshness in the loud passages and instability in the soft ones.Well... considering the radical changes made to the colour palette, maybe they could have called this the "Golden Slumbers Edition" or "Pixie Dust Edition" or, better still "Global Warming Edition"... And it's not something you can correct with the Tint button (which adds red or green) or with the Cold setting (which adds a little blue). But it's perfect if you are sound-oriented and an improved sound is very important to you, if you have no memories of what "Peter Pan" used to look like or if you really pictured Hook's harpsichord as being made of solid gold.

Having seen this movie again several times recently, I have learned to appreciate this film a little more. While not nearly as good as some of the more famous Disney films (such as Beauty and the Beast, Bambi or Little Mermaid), it still deserves a 9 because it is head and shoulders better than other kids movies. The animation is very good, pace is fast and the movie is just fun. The negatives are simply a product of the times, in that this is about the most politically incorrect Disney film ever made (perhaps more so than Song of the South). I'm sure that MANY American Indians watch the film and deservedly cringe at the depiction of Indians, who seem rather dumb and sing the song "what makes the red man red?"--an ode to every terrible stereotype about Indians. BUT, I am a strong believer in discussing these things and NOT condemning the entire film. In fact, I am a history teacher and have used the film to talk about these aspects of the film.

This was like watching wild Saturday morning cartoons, but only "Baby Boomers" would understand that (likely).Here's my breakdown:STORY:
I love the story itself because it expresses values I've held for years. Coupled with Disney's animation
it had potential to be a wonderful story for children and adults.Unfortunately the execution of it here is done as if in a frenzy with continuous outbursts of yelling. I don't
understand how this is so wild as opposed to, say, "Pinocchio" (1940) being more balanced and maturely delivered.I've looked at the directors and writers but cannot find a pattern.ACTING:
Hard to assess animation "acting" --- but the characters seemed believable, albeit somewhat cliched and racist.TEMPO:
While not as crazy as "Ichabod and Mr. Toad," it's the same frenetic qualityCINEMATOGRAPHY:
For an animation, well-done, but not greatDIRECTING / WRITING:
I can't get a handle on the directors and writers as there are no patterns I can identify. Weird ...Is it a good film? OKShould you watch this once? MaybeRating: 7.0.

Except for The Jungle Book (which I watched every day as a kid), Peter Pan was probably my favorite Disney film during my childhood. Why? Its in the story. I mean, who hasn't been a kid and wished they could fly or do something else magical at least once in a lifetime? Neverland is a place kids dream about, having adventure with Indians and mermaids and pirates. That is what makes this film so wonderful, that despite its simple plot, its less than complex characters, it is something that brings back memories. It is something that kids can relate to, and something that teenagers and adults can watch and think, "Ah, I remember when I used to wish I were like that." There's no real moral, just a simple story that is purely entertainment. And that is why I loved this and The Jungle Book so much when I was a young kid. Now older, my perspectives have changed, but not even Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, and Mulan, my three favorite Disney films, have such sentimental value to me as those two films do. Its just a shame that the sequel to Peter Pan was horrendous, I hope they don't do the same to The Jungle Book this February.

After great Disney classics like 'Snow White', 'Pinocchio', 'Bambi' and 'Dumbo' and a nice one like 'Alice in Wonderland' I have to say 'Peter Pan' is a little disappointing. Just a little though. It has all the nice Disney ingredients so it is still pretty entertaining. The crocodile that has eaten the hand of Hook (and the ticking clock) and wants the rest of his body has the funniest scenes, one with Smee (voice by Bill Thompson) in particular. Hook (Hans Conried) and Peter Pan (Bobby Driscoll) have some funny scenes as well. Wendy (Kathryn Beaumont, also voice of Alice in 'Alice in Wonderland') is your usual Disney woman, adorable but sometimes a little too good and brave. All this together makes a nice Disney movie, but not much more than that.

Peter Pan has pretty much everything you could want from a Disney fantasy. There's adventure, romance, swordplay and comedy all mixed together to create a film that effectively captures your imagination. Based on the play and novel by J. M. Barrie, Disney plays the film more as a wide-eyed adventure with the darker and more psychological elements played down. Peter Pan is the boy that never grew up who whisks Wendy and her brothers off to Neverland for the journey of a lifetime. Numerous events take place including meeting mermaids, Indians and of course battling Peter's arch- nemesis Captain Hook. The films narrative is quite straight-forward, the children explore various regions of Neverland and Captain Hook repeatedly tries to get defeat Peter.The characters are the true focus of the film and they are a mixed bag. Peter himself is very assured, confident and a resourceful leader, while his relationship with Wendy does feel genuine. The problem I have with him is that he is somewhat unlikeable. In the original Barrie novel he was egotistical and unpleasant so Disney were accurate, but it means that he isn't an engaging lead because he appears so unsympathetic at times. Tinkerbell suffers exactly the same issue. Her jealousy is understandable and her reactions can be funny, but going as far as trying have Wendy killed is simply too much and it is difficult to get you to care for a character who would go to such vicious extremes. Wendy is nice enough but she's just kind of bland. Kathryn Beaumont gives her a lot of energy, but she doesn't do or say anything of note and is just a dull character in general. The same goes for John and Michael. John is enjoyably geeky and Michael is a cute innocent, but they don't have much character beyond that and they end up feeling like more a side note than the main characters. The Lost Boys are simply forgettable. Giving them their own animal skins is a nice touch, but if it wasn't for that it would be hard to identify them. It is difficult to give so many characters identities, but it's difficult to care about them if they're so bland. The sequences with the Indians are now notorious for the borderline racist portrayal, it never bothered me but I can see how it might offend. Where it does succeed is with its villains. Both Captain Hook and Mr. Smee are brilliant. Hook is the perfect balance of threatening and hilarious, blending both seamlessly at certain times. There's a real intensity and menace to him when he plots against Peter, he shows his cunning in tricking Tinkerbell and we even see him shoot one of his own men for singing at one point. Yet he is just as quick to turn into a quivering mess once the crocodile shows up, cowering at every opportunity and verging on a breakdown. Smee is extremely enjoyable and Bill Thompson does a wonderful job voice wise, he's just too gentle and bumbling to be a pirate. His dialogue and reactions are always funny, while its comedy gold when the two of them are together.The animation for the most part is excellent. It always amazes me at how flowing it is as the characters are always on the go or there always seems to be something taking place, yet everything moves very smoothly and the animation is more restrained whilst retaining the brighter elements of earlier work. Neverland does look like a magical place and I do enjoy the sense of location you get with it. The comedic pieces are fantastic. As said whenever Hook and Smee are together it's funny, but the scenes with the crocodile and Hook are some of the best animated slapstick I've ever seen, everything from how quick the movements are to the sound effects are hysterical. The music is also excellent. The score by Oliver Wallace features a number of effective melodies, whilst songs like 'You Can Fly!' and 'Following the Leader' are very memorable.So on the whole I'd say Peter Pan is something of another flawed masterpiece from Disney. Its only real weakness is its main characters and it's a shame that its sole issue happens to be an important one, Peter is difficult to root for and the Darlings are just a little too dull. With that said I think it excels in every other area. The story is laid-out well, Hook and Smee are great fun, the animation is excellent, it can be very funny at times and the songs stay with you. These stronger elements definitely outweigh the issues with the main characters. It's not Disney's strongest, but it is memorable and can be easily be enjoyed upon repeated viewings.

'Peter Pan' is undoubtedly one of the best of Disney's films. The story isn't too deep or meaningful, as, say, 'Bambi'. The power behind it is the familiarity. Every little kid yearns to haveadventures like Peter, so everyone identifies with the story. To tell the truth, the film is kind of episodic, like an extra-large TV cartoon special. The climax is fittingly climactic, but the final defeat of Hook isn't really powerful enough, which makes it disappointing after all the flashy swordplay. Speaking of Hook, he and Mr Smee are inevitably the scene-stealers, no matter how beloved Peter may be to children. The same way, in Hook/Smee scenes, if you throw in a hungry crocodile, the monstrous reptile will overshadow even Hook. Wendy really looks too old to be horrified about growing up, though, except for the sequences in which she fantasizes about Never Land with all the authenticity of a three-year-old. Never Land is beautiful, to say the least. The lush jungles and the mermaid lagoon is wonderfully brought to life, as is the eery Skull Island. This is the best showcase for the art direction. Also excellent is the detailed, meticulous design of the wooden hideout of the Lost Boys.'Peter Pan' is one of my all-time favorites. It has humor, great animation, and the best part of it is a simplistic story that revolves around the desires of the child within all of us (I'm still twelve, so I never had to look too deep). A must-see for any animation fan, particularly Disney buffs, the young and the young-at-heart.9/10

I don't hate it, I just find certain things unappealing. To get it out of the way. I can't stand Tinker Bell, and I really don't know why a character this cruel and selfish has become a Disney icon!? Heck, she tries to kill off Wendy more than once and is stupid enough to believe Captain Hook! And I really don't like the indian stereotypes in this movie. I hope parents of today will take the talk with their kids about such things in movies and media in general. Besides that we get wonderful animation as usual (the flight scene over London towards Neverland is one of my favourite scenes from any Disney movie) and mostly highly enjoyable characters. Captain Hook and Peter Pan are just hilarious together. The crocodile and Hook make some great slapstick comedy worth a fortune. And a couple of memorable songs like "You Can Fly" and "Following The Leader". The ending should be a reminder to every parent who blame their children for being children. It's a wonderful lesson to learn for the parents.

My parents took me to see Walt Disney's "Peter Pan" in 1953 when I was 5-years old. I was completely hooked. I was imprinted with this movie the way future generations would be imprinted with "Star Wars". For months after, my anxious parents wished they had opted for deep-pile carpet rather than highly-polished floorboards as I leapt from every piece of furniture in the house aided by imaginary pixie dust.Disney's take on the story of the boy who never grew up and his adventures with the Darling children in Neverland may have been even more influential, because I ended up earning my living as an artist for the last 50 years.It wasn't until 25 years later that I saw the film again and I must admit I was apprehensive. Would I be disappointed and see flaws that were not apparent to an overawed child? Well, that didn't happen. Instead, I was overawed all over again with the mastery of the whole thing.But of course, the film was more that just stunning visuals; there was also the story that was adapted from J. M. Barrie's famous book. And the film has copped plenty of flack over the years - racism and sexism being a couple of the heavier charges laid against it.The depiction of the Native Americans probably wouldn't get off the drawing board these days, but back in the 50's just about every race and creed had their own cinematic stereotypes, which were repeated in movie after movie. To be totally fair, Disney was actually following the lead of Barrie himself who refers to the Indians as 'Redskins' throughout his story and deals with them in the broadest of stereotypes with a surprising amount of violence thrown in.As for being sexist, possibly Tinkerbell has come in for the most attention with her voluptuous figure and occasional hip wiggling - she is referred to as Twerkerbell in one critique of the film. But again, rather than just the Disney artists over-vamping an innocent fairy, here is J. M. Barrie's description of Tink: "exquisitely gowned in a skeleton leaf, cut low and square, through which her figure could be seen to the best advantage. She was slightly inclined to embonpoint". That archaic word means a plump, hourglass figure. I rest my case.To see how good this film is, you only need to compare it with the sequel, "Return to Neverland" made in 2002. With bigger eyes and individual shading, the characters seem more cartoony, lacking much of the warmth and style of the earlier version.There have been plenty of stage and film versions of the story over the decades, but my favourite is still Walt Disney's 1953 film; even after 62 years, it has lost none of its magic for me.

There are better Disney films to be seen; among them are Finding Nemo, Snow White, and Beauty and the Beast. However, this IS among their best, and one of my favorites. While entirely politically incorrect, this work retains the heart and love typically demonstrated by early Disney films.This is a grand adventure which provides you with superior animation, a beautiful soundtrack, well defined characters, and-for many-fond memories.It rates a 7.4/10 from...the Fiend :.

This classic contains adventures , imagination , astounding as well as gorgeous sets and brilliant images . The picture mingles action , feats , humor , tongue-in-cheek , fantasy and a lot of entertainment . The film centers about Peter Pan (voice by Bobby Driscoll) , a nice adolescent who doesn't want grow up , Wendy , and brothers , all of them form a motley group going to Neverland , the wonderful and enchanted island . As they are whisked away to the magical world of Neverland on a magical flight . Peter Pan , Tink and Lost Boys , a gang of rag-tag runaways (they were boys who fell out of their prams while the nurses weren't looking , whereas Peter Pan is a permanent resident of Never Neverland, the lost boys are only temporary lodgers , if they seem to grow up, Peter Pan sends them home) will take on captain Hook , Smee and pirates henchmen . Meanwhile , Pan fights enemies and attempts to save his friends from scheming Captain Hook , Smee and his hoodlums .The film contains emotion , humor , fantasy , a lot of fun and songs from Sammys Cahn and Fain . Here Peter and friends undertake several adventures in Neverland ; as Pan with the help of her and the Lost Boys battling Captain Hook and Smee . All ingredients are well presented and and correct and directors Clyde Geronimi , Wilfred Jackson , Hamilton Luske inject much excitement into the many boisterous action scenes . From the beginning to the end the amusement and entertainment is interminable . An entertaining movie that turns out to be colorful and delightful , though a little tiring when the characters are singing , but is still shines . The highlights film are the marvelous images when Peter Pan and Jane are flying throughout Neverland , as they fly over clouds , Tipis , Indian tribes and skull monument . Due to controversy over their appearance in this original movie , as Disney attracted negative comments for their stereotypical depiction of Indians, as indeed did J.M. Barrie with his original play . Marvelous and hilarious scenes carried out by the Disney animators , including extreme comic possibilities when happen "Hook vs. the Crocodile" , adding the unforgettable " Tick Tock!" sound heard from the crocodile. Although original author J.M. Barrie is credited , this film was the only major version of "Peter Pan" to use little of his original dialogue . A great cast of actors to be used to shoot this classy including Hans Conried (Hook) , Bobby Driscoll (Peter Pan) , Bill Thompson (Mr. Smee) , Heather Angel (Mrs. Darling) , among others . Disney went on to exasperate purist fans (similarly to cartoon rendition Alice in Wonderland) using American boy star Bobby Driscoll's voice for Pan and modelling Tinkerbell on Marilyn Monroe . Many Peter Pan purists were very upset by the characterization of Tinker Bell as a petulant and voluptuous young woman as old film Peter Pan as its sequel titled Return to Never Land . The fable will appeal to adventure and classic tale fan . Rating : 8/10 above average . It's a terrific familiar amusement that will appeal to vintage tale fans .Other films and stage productions dealing with this classic personage are the followings : The original Broadway production of "Peter Pan", or "The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up" by J.M. Barrie opened at the Empire Theater on November 6, 1905 , it ran for 223 performances, closed on May 20, 1906, and starred nineteenth-century stage actress Maude Adams, who never made any films ; silent film Peter Pan (1924) starred by Virginia Brown Faire as Tinker Bell , it uses much of Barrie's original dialogue ; Peter Pan (1953) with voice by Bobby Driscoll, Kathryn Beaumont, Hans Conried ; Hook(2001) with Steven Spielberg with Dustin Hoffman as Captain Hook , Robin Williams , Freddie Highmore , Julia Roberts , Bob Hoskins as Smee , Maggie Smith and Caroline Goodall ; Finding Neverland (2004) by Marc Foster with Johnny Depp as James M Barry , Kate Winslet , Kelly McDonald as Peter Pan , Julie Christie , Radha Mitchell , and recent version Peter Pan by JP Hogan with Jeremy Sumpter , Raquel Wood and Jason Isaac . And the official sequel to classic history with an enjoyable Peter Pan , Return to Never Land(2002) by Robin Budd and Donovan Cook , though it was originally planned as a direct-to-video release in which the protagonist of the story results to be Wendy's daughter and is set in London during World War II , she is abducted by Captain Hook and Peter Pan must come to the rescue in order to challenge his old enemy once again .

JM Barrie's original 1911 novel is one of my all-time favorite books. It's sweet, surreal, dark, strange, and ultimately haunting. It's been adapted hundreds of times for film and stage, and the 1953 Disney classic is one of the best-known versions. Does it hold up? Yes... but also no.I'll start with the things I loved.
First is the art and animation. Simply gorgeous. Like all Disney films, the animation is top-tier, but Peter Pan manages to stand out even among the other Disney classics. The scene of Peter and the Darling children flying through London, the lush jungles of Neverland, the pirate-caused mayhem... It's simply amazing. Major props to the Disney animators who brought this beauty to life.The music (with the exception of one painfully dated song, see below) is also fun, which is typical for Disney films.Some of the characters are also splendidly portrayed. Wendy (perfectly voiced by Kathryn Beaumont) is spot-on, as is Nana the nurse-dog. This version of Tinkerbell is in many ways the definitive version, and I like that she captures all of the malice and sassiness that's present in the original book.The Tick Tock crocodile loses the menace of the original, but the Disney-fied version of the croc is still very enjoyable in its own right.But the best characters are undoubtedly Captain Hook and Mr. Smee. Although I love Barrie's enigmatic Hook from the original play and book (and Jason Isaac's ingenious portrayal in the 2003 live-action version), the Disney Hook is a brilliant comedy creation and a winner in his own right. Smee is equally fun and effortlessly wins big laughs.Truly the most hilarious scenes feature Hook and Smee. One of the highlights is the battle at Skull Rock. Although it lacks the delicious sinister mood of the original book and the 2003 version, I still find Disney's take on the scene to be extremely enjoyable and often laugh-out-loud funny. Hook frantically attempting to escape the croc's jaws, all the while screaming for Smee to come to his aid, is some of the best slapstick ever put to animation. The scene reaches its peak when Smee swings his oar, meaning to brain the croc, only to have Hook emerge from the croc's jaws and take the clobbering instead. Perfectly timed!Another scene that showcases the slapstick brilliance of Hook and Smee is the bit where Smee attempts to sooth the frazzled pirate with a shave.
Smee wraps Hook's scruffy face in a hot towel, but fails to notice when a female seagull flies down and uses the towel as her nest, settling in like a brooding hen. Smee lathers what appears to be the captain's face ...but is really the gull's rear end. The scene only escalates from there, with Smee shaving off feathers and exposing the seagull's bare bottom. There's a classic double-take reaction as the seagull, upon having her bottom patted with aftershave, finally turns around and gasps in horror. She quickly leaves the towel "nest," flying away while crying and attempting to cover her clean-shaven fanny.
Smee, meanwhile, finds the empty towel and mistakingly believes that Hook's head has been shaved off! Cue the search for the missing pirate head. The scene is simply a must-watch for fans of slapstick mayhem.So the positives: beautiful art and animation (thanks to the talented animators), mostly great music, several awesome characters, and side-splitting comedy.The negatives:In some ways, the Disney version dumbs down aspects of the original. Mr. Darling is reduced to a raving jerk instead of the hypocritically immature but lovable father Barrie presents in the book.Even worse is Peter Pan himself. Barrie writes him as a true child: eager, selfish, and ignorant, but ultimately tragic in that he will never grow up and loses and forgets everything and everyone he loves.
In contrast, the Disney version of Peter acts like a rude '50s American greaser. He's unlikable, and it's no surprise the filmmakers themselves criticized the character after the film's release.And finally, worst of all, is the portrayal of the "Natives." The original book does include some poor stereotypes and terms, but nothing compared to the racism of "What Makes the Redman Red." All of the Natives (except the mute Tiger Lily) are drawn as the exact same caricature: big noses, bright red skin, ugly faces. It's embarrassing.
I don't agree with censorship and don't think the film should be re-edited. But parents should use those scenes as a chance to talk with their children about harmful stereotypes. When I watched this with my 8-year-old, I made sure to discuss how such racism was wrong then and is wrong now.These weak points are clear blemishes on what could have been a great adaptation, but despite these flaws, I still find the film enjoyable overall thanks to the amazing animation, music, comedy, and several great characters.

"Disney movies" and "children's movies" are often used interchangeably, but I believe that Peter Pan is a truly captivating story for both young and old. As a child I was entranced by the beautiful colors and artwork, the mysterious fairies and their magical dust, and the elusive character of Peter Pan. I wanted nothing more than to catch a fairy and keep her as my own. I imagined her teaching me to fly and then leading the way to Neverland. I also found myself yelling at the television near the end of the movie when Peter refuses to go back to London with Wendy. They should get married, darn it! They're perfect together! Hey, I was a kid...Now, as an adult, I see the story for what I believe Sir James Barrie was trying to say. One stage tradition holds that Captain Hook and Mr. Darling are played by the same actor. Disney stuck with this by using the same voice actor. I believe that Barrie was trying to speak on poor father-child relations, which are still present today. Captain Hook is scary. Children fear and often do not understand their fathers. On a similar note is the crocodile which Hook so deeply fears. The crocodile swallowed a clock (as well as Hook's hand) and now chases Hook around. I believe that this symbolizes a man's fear of time. Or rather a father's fear that he is not close with his children and must hurry up before it's too late.I fell in love with Peter Pan (both the character and the movie) at a very young age (it was the first movie I ever saw) and continue to love it today. Young or old, boy or girl, man or woman, this movie will warm your heart and hopefully teach you a lesson or two.

Good watch, probably won't watch again, but can recommend for fans of Peter Pan that have seen other versions.Wow, I feel as if I've never seen this movie before: this is something that happens when you learn to watch movies critically and rewatch childhood favorites.I'm continuously enlightened to how awful Walt Disney was. This movie is filled with insensitive nonsense, particularly to Native Americans, and the majority of the characters are just awful people, to include Peter Pan and Tinkerbell. Wendy is the only "pure" character in the entire movie, and I feel as if I'm reaching there. Tiger Lily might be a competitor, but she doesn't DO much, so it's hard to tell.With such a wonderful premise, and Disney's level of production value, you would think this would hold up, even after 70 years, but I honestly am beginning to think this was so widely accepted for a lack of options.Don't get me wrong, the actual story is both "close enough" to the original story, and well enough structured that a reboot would probably be very close to this version. It's all stylistic choices in both animation, dialogue, and character presentation that could easily be cleaned up, and likely should have been.While I could probably rant for an hour just on the "love" triangle happening in this (I am completely in camp Tinkerbell), this is supposed to be "boy who never grew up". While that lends to the jealousy factors, the amount and inconsistency of details on everything about the place being magical tends to distract from it.You'll notice that Peter no longer has human ears, he has pixie ears, and the boys supposedly killed and skinned giant animals so they could wear their skins as pajamas: where are the rest of the animals?The pirates have been there long enough to get restless, though there are enough of them left, despite Hook just shooting them dead on occasion, but not long enough to mutiny or properly search the one island, but long enough to have a weirdly specific history between Peter Pan and Hook and the crocodile.It's a weird movie: it's still worth a watch, but I'd watch it with your kids as opposed to just on their own.

The first time I ever had the pleasure of watching the Peter Pan story was with the Steven Spielberg production of Hook.I found the Walt Disney 1953 version of Peter Pan outstanding in every way. Like all of the Disney animated classics I can honestly say when you sit down to watch one you just forget that it is an animated feature that you are viewing and Peter Pan is no exception.Peter Pan is the story of a boy who refuses to grow up.  This production has so much to offer the viewer with the humour, music and action scenes especially with Peter Pan and Hook.  But we must not forget Wendy and her two brothers John, Michael and of cause Tinker Bell, the Lost Boys and the magical island in the heavens called Never Land where the story takes place.
So if you like a fun filled action adventure Peter Pan is certainly for you.

When it comes to pre-CGI animation from Disney Studios' heyday (1942-1958) - "Peter Pan" is (IMO) one of the top-of-the-line productions (on all counts).But, of course, since "Peter Pan" comes from the early 1950s - The viewer cannot harshly judge its story-line by today's "politically correct" standards. 'Cause, otherwise, if they do - Then - This children's picture will be completely ruined for them once the characters have entered into the fantastic realm of Neverland.

I have seen this cartoon movie many times and I liked the music and animation and the story, but unfortunately some of the characters are bad like "Peter Pan." and "Tinkerbell". Yes Hook is a villain but a victim of bullying and now has a disability caused by the jerk Peter Pan, decapitating his hand and throwing his hand to the crocodile, thankfully was never shown or it would've gone from PG to PG-13.The story starts off, George is going to the party and his family members his wife his kids, Wendy, John, Michael ignore him and they don't ask if he's all right since he tripped and fell going over, they run over to the dog instead, why didn't they also ask their dad if he was okay, that scene scared me. Anyways he puts Nana the dog outside, Then George and Mary goes out for the evening.Peter Pan and Tinkerbell breaks into the Darling house to find his shadow. Peter wakes up Wendy, she sews the shadow on Peter, Tinkerbell pulls on Wendy's hair and Peter stops her, John and Michael wakes up. Peter puts the pixie dust so Wendy and the children can all levitate and fly, the 4 of them sneaks out and flies toward another planet to Neverland where nobody grows up yet they're mortal and can get hurt or die.Hook has psychological problems and a disability missing his left hand, which causes him to be a murderer and a kidnapper, unforgiving and seek revenge and hold a grudge against Peter. Peter and the 3 kids arrive at Neverland, they're attacked and they seek safety from the cannonballs. Tinkerbell tricks the lost boys to attacking Wendy and she gets banished by Peter. Peter takes Wendy to the lagoon while John and Micheal leads the lost boys on a hiking trip which they eventually got captured by Indians. The Indian Chief is angry and falsely accuses the lost boys for kidnapping his daughter Tiger Lily.Meanwhile Peter and Wendy meets the mermaids, but Peter makes fun of Wendy getting wet and she gets angry. Then Peter sees Hook and Smee with Tiger Lily who is captured. Then Peter gets into a fight with hook and laughs and bullies Hook who is attacked by the crocodile.Peter is declared the hero and is honored by the Chief and the Indians hold a celebration for saving Tiger Lily, Wendy didn't like the party and goes back to Peters hideout.Then Hook becomes sick then heard rumors Peter banished Tink, he then has his assistant Smee kidnap Tinkerbell where she lead them to Peters hideout. Peter is annoyed and disappointed with the lost boys for wanting to leave Neverland, Wendy, John, Michael and the lost boys gets kidnapped by Hooks pirates. Hook becomes a terrorist by planting a time bomb in Peters hideout.The next morning, Wendy, John, Michael and lost boys have a choice to make, join Hooks crew or walk the plank, Tinkerbell quickly flies over to warn Peter and saves him from getting blown up and survives, Wendy walks the plank and Peter saves her, the lost boys get into a swashbuckling war against the pirates, Peter once again goes on a duel with Hook, he then wins and once again makes fun of Captain Hook who falls in the water and gets attacked by the crocodile and the pirates escape in their lifeboats. Peter makes the ship hover and flies them safely home to their parents.I have a big problem with this movie, first of all I do not like Peter Pan, he's spoiled, arrogant, selfish, a showoff, rude to people, only cares about himself unless tragedy strikes. He's a bully, he mocks disabled people like Hook which made me really mad and almost becomes a murderer himself, yes there have been people in real life that have been attacked or killed by the Crocodile.The controversial scene where Hook gets brutally attacked by the Crocodile scares me every time and I get sensitive to it since I don't find it funny at all, I can't believe Disney is still showing graphic violence in this cartoon I want them to stop showing it.He bullied Wendy at one point for letting the mermaids bully Wendy which I thought was uncalled for. He also shows off at the Indians ceremony. Yes even though he did some good deeds to save Wendy and Tiger Lily and Tinkerbell. He also put the 3 kids in peril and didn't watch over their safety.That isn't enough to make me cheer for Peter. Peter Pan overall shows no mercy to the pirates and is rude and is very bossy and mean to everybody and I think he should've been a labeled a villain not Hook.I also didn't like Tinkerbell because she's annoying like Navi the fairy, she bullied Wendy and almost got her killed and led Hook to Peter's hideout.I actually liked Hook in this movie, yes even though he's labeled a villain, I don't think he was a very bad villain, unlike Snow White's Stepmother who's a murderer and serial killer. I felt very sorry for Hook the entire time and I did wish he did win the fight instead of Peter Pan, I rooted for Hook. Yes he did commit terrorist attacks, shot one of his annoying singing pirates, kidnapping Tiger Lily, planting a time bomb in Peter's hideout. I wish that someone could've taught Hook forgiveness and help him to not seek revenge and be happy and a loving pirate.I also liked Mr. Smee who was cheerful and easygoing and a friendly pirate and tried to help Hook out, he was also my favorite sidekick villain. I liked the part where he accidentally shaved off the seagull's feathers off his bottom exposing the seagulls bare bottom. I think Mr. Smee should've been a hero and not a sidekick villain.I did like the crocodile and felt bad for it when it became attracted and addicted to eating Hook.I felt bad for George their father and also for Nana the dog. who tripped and had an accident in the bedroom, that's a lesson for you kids, never ever leave a wagon in the middle of the room, it's a hazard even in real life.I wish that the Disney storyboard people had spent more time giving Indians more personally and screen time and the reason why they attacked the lost boys and why they feuded with each other, I'm interested in Indian characters. Also the mermaids weren't given enough screen time which I felt letdown.I liked George, Mary, Nana, Wendy, John, Michael, the lost boys, the Indian tribe, and Captain Hook's pirates, and the Crocodile they were very fun and enjoyable.But I hated Peter Pan with a passion and his annoying fairy Tink. If I could change this movie, I would have Wendy help Captain Hook out with his personal problems and get him to change and give up his villainous ways and think happy thoughts and learn how to forgive other people, Hook, Smee and the pirates needed a mother for sure. I would've had both Peter Pan and Tinkerbell get banished from Neverland and grow up for once and never come back, good riddance to Peter Pan the jerk and bully.It's too bad Peter Pan is the real villain star in this cartoon and not Hook. I would've liked him better if Peter wasn't a bully and a showoff. Yes this is also a Disney classic but there's better Peter Pan films to watch, I highly recommend "Hook" 1991 with the late Robin Williams, or also "Peter Pan" 2003 an amazing live action movie. Or "Neverland" 2011, those Peter Pan films are worth your time. Also the SNES game "Hook" 1992 is also worth your time.This Disney cartoon should've been Rated PG-13 for scary scenes, violence, peril, smoking, alcohol, terrorist attack.