This movie was a huge letdown , publicity made me believe that this will be final piece of the puzzle which will connect all the previous movies, so i was at least expecting something more intelligent and a shocker twist of an ending, what we got instead seemed to be a rushed attempt to close all loopholes from the previous chapters.I followed this SAGA not just because of the gore but also the story which i thought would end in a very epic scale ,this final chapter just offered more gore and took the simplest and easiest way out of the story, It felt like wasting a 7 year long wait for a good ending and instead we get a mediocre and Pointless one.

What can one attribute to another entry into the "Saw" franchise? Number 7 comes right on the heels of the 3D craze and purports to be its final chapter. So Jigsaw (Tobin Bell) is still dead and but his legacy still goes on in flashbacks. And in a protégé, Hoffman (Costas Mandylor). And in his widow, Jill (Betsy Russell). The entire soap opera of Jigsaw's family and professional life carries a narrative that attempts to reconcile the final film with the beginning of the franchise, and it definitely does seem to have recapitulated rather well for both hardcore fans as well as fairweather ones. But it has to be said that the films have been on a downward spiral since its fantastic first installment. It delivers the gore in more elaborate ways than the past few films have -- considering how quickly they were rushed out -- but loses that sense of cleverness and more importantly, that sense of menace that the franchise has always attempted to retain.After the previous six films, the franchise does not so much look through the eye of the victims anymore as it does its villains who have an entire mythology unto themselves. And "Saw 3D" almost solely focuses on Hoffman, who it really has to be said, is a sad substitute for Jigsaw. He carries on his messiah's waning moralistic philosophy by continuing to find victims in need of a baptism by blood but finds himself hindered by Jill who is now cooperating with the police and giving them everything she knows to spite her husband's latest protégé. Add to this one Bobby Dagen (an actually funny Sean Patrick Flanery), who has written a best-selling book and sold DVDs about being a Jigsaw survivor and profiting from Hoffman's hallowed gift of life. Suffice to say, he (and his wife) quickly becomes the main plaything of this film's grand guignol torture play with 60 minutes set on the clock.Now, even with the requisite twists and better-than-expected inventiveness of its traps, "Saw 3D" does not deliver in the least with its titular promise -- it's 3D sets yet another low standard for the technology. If the onus on watching this film is to attempt a different perspective, then it never quite reaches the mark. But who are we really kidding here? It's just one more excuse to milk this cash cow. The franchise has truly run its course. If you watched and enjoyed all seven of its films, at least you can be proud of that. Right? Anyone?www.moviexclusive.com

I think you need to look at the Saw movies like this: they are Friday the 13th movies with more innovation and creativity, not to mention much more sick gore. Obviously, if you didn't like any Friday the 13th, Halloween, or Nightmare on Elm Street movie, you should stop reading now, because your mind has been made up. You will hate this movie.In fact, to be perfectly fair, even people who liked the earlier Saw movies will find plenty to carp about here. Saw 3D purports to be the end of the series (oh sure, but we did have several movies after Friday the 13th VII: The Final Chapter), and if it is, it ends on a fairly conclusive note. Then again, Jigsaw himself died early in the series, and that didn't stop further movies from being made, so take that for what it's worth.I can't review this without some plot points from previous Saw movies, so if you haven't watched any of them and plan to, stop reading. OK, still with me? Let's recap.Mark Hoffman (Costas Mandylor) is the bad guy, having served as Jigsaw's accomplice (blackmailed into it, really), and he has a new game afoot. But complicating matters is Jigsaw's widow, Jill Tuck (Betsy Russell), who knows of Hoffman's involvement. Jill brings Internal Affairs detective Gibson (Chad Donella) into the mix, so Hoffman's dual goals of running the new game and getting to Jill Tuck drive the plot.The game involves a man named Bobby (Sean Patrick Flanery) who has profited mightily from having "survived" a Jigsaw trap; he's written a best-selling book and runs a support group and makes the talk-show rounds as well. But is Bobby on the up and up? Duh. As with all of Jigsaw's games, Bobby's games involve atoning for his own sins at the cost of some self sacrifice.The traps continue to be inventive, although some – like the face trap – make welcome returns. I was reminded briefly of an old episode of the radio serial The Shadow called "The House that Death Built," in which various traps (like a tripwire that triggered a double-barreled shotgun) were strewn about the house to keep people from finding treasure, or something. Bobby must go through several of these, much as victims had in earlier movies. And of course, by doing so he loses his pound or so of flesh, and secrets are revealed. Oh, and Carey Elwes, who played Dr. Gordon in the very first Saw movie, makes a return here – not giving away anything there, of course. He shows up to mock Bobby for having a support group in the first place (something about profiting off misery).Even though it's pretty important to have watched at least some of the earlier films, Saw 3D does its best to keep you in the loop, reminding us of certain characters and plots of previous films. For example, the support group includes bona fide survivors, such as one who needed to cut off her own arm to save herself.But for me, the best part comes at the very end, when All Is Revealed. As the movie's denouement approaches and the bodies pile up, you begin to wonder if Hoffman will emerge victorious – or if he's even the only bad guy out there. The ending answers both questions to some degree of satisfaction and helps to fill in missing information from the previous six movies as well. So on the one hand, the movie ends the series in a satisfying manner, and that's good.On the other hand, the door is left ever so slightly open for more and more Saw films. It's not impossible to believe. In fact, it's more plausible than the Friday the 13th "endings," because no matter how many times and in how many ways Jason was killed, he somehow came back to slaughter more virgins in the next movie. At least the Saw movies follow some sort of logic.For me, Saw 3D's 3D effects were well played indeed – if you don't mind intestines flying at you, you'll appreciate them. Not so much if you don't. The plot is less convoluted and intricate than some of the most recent installments, and the movie doesn't waste time on character development. Heck, you hardly even see the now-long-dead Jigsaw. The movie flat-out worked for me from a visual and visceral standpoint.

OK this movie was extremely disappointing. From the plot, do the characters, to the acting to the three 3D, it was one poorly written premise after the next.The first thing that was stupid...The opening trap...This one left me feeling the writers purposely set out to make it stupid and unbelievable. The scene opens with hundreds of people walking by the window with three people tied up (you only see two of them until the trap begins). The reason jigsaw puts them in the trap was just plain stupid (two guys manipulated by one girl), and must have taken 5 seconds to come up with...Also, does anyone honestly think in such a public place, no one would notice two people tied to construction equipment??? And then, the only attempt from the crowd to save them was one small women trying to bang the glass with a briefcase, obviously the glass wasn't going to break and so that was it, no more attempts...Really?? And not only that, but everyone was watching like it was some movie, taking pictures with their camera phone...I was literally laughing in the theater at how stupid it was...In the end, the only person who died was the girl, who frankly, out of the three, deserved it most, and you didn't care at all...Second thing that was stupid and totally not believable....Bobby's character or the main character...(Bobby was a guy who lied about surviving a jigsaw trap, so he could sell books and lead a publicized support group of real jigsaw survivors) This again made me feel like the writers just gave up and used the first idea that came to mind...Why was it not believable? Because if someone had gone through a jigsaw trap, there would have been a police report a thorough investigation, all sorts of documentation about what happened, where it happened, people involved, hospital reports about his injuries...So how he can write an entire book, get it published, do book signings, go on TV, lead a support group; without having any proof other than fake scars is BEYOND ME...Not only that, but the decision to make Bobby's trap about going through a house and trying to help out his colleagues is completely unoriginal...(SPOILER) After everything unfolded and everyone died, I was left feeling that writers didn't want to make anyone live because then they would have had to think harder about the plot...Besides the characters in the traps are so thin and meaningless to the other characters, you really don't care at all when they die because they contribute nothing to the story line anyway...Third thing that was stupid...Hoffman's character....His motive the entire movie was revenge on Jill tuck for putting him a trap...(Spoiler) His character for the entire movie was nothing more than a thug...He just walked around stabbing people in the neck until he got to Jill...I mean how freaking stupid is that? Again, I was left feeling the writers had no desire to put anymore thought into the movie and said "Screw it, I'm done thinking about this movie...Let's just make him stab people in the neck and be done with it.."Fourth thing that was stupid...Gibson's character...In the past, Hoffman saved this cop's life (told to the audience via flashback) but then brutally killed Gibson's attacker, Gibson reported him for excessive brutality and Hoffman held a grudge ever since...STUPID premise!! (Spoiler) The goose chase Hoffman puts them on was retarded and required no thought...He led them to a room and they all got shot by a sub machine gun.Fifth that was stupid...The ending and Doctor Gordon's character....(Total Spoiler) It was always rumored before Saw 7 came out that Doctor Gordon was still alive helping out jigsaw...So I was really excited to see how it would pan out...Man, what a disappointment...You see him once in the survivor support group for about 30 seconds and then doesn't show up until the last two or three minutes of the movie, where he attacks Hoffman....The writers decided that a thirty second flash back was all that was necessary to explain his involvement with Jigsaw, after that, he puts Hoffman in the room from the first movie (where Dr. Gordon originally hacked off his own leg) and shuts the door...You don't see him die! And the movie ends...(Spoiler) But wait, what happened to Bobby? Nothing, he goes through each trap, trying to save the lives of his colleagues, but fails them all...He finally gets to his wife in the last trap, fails at saving her, she is burned alive and the last time you see him on the screen is crying in front of the furnace that is burning his wife. Out of any character in the movie, I really wanted her to live because she did absolutely nothing wrong...So again, this movie was such a waste of time...The plot on ALL LEVELS felt rushed and meaningless, completely unoriginal and POORLY written....Perhaps I held it to a higher standard because the first one was BRILLIANT!!! and the others good, but it's really nothing more than a mindless slasher movie...In fact, the only thing I can say good about the movie is the traps are pretty cool...There are a lot of them, and they're creative...All that being said, I am glad I saw it... because at least now, I have NO DESIRE TO SEE ANOTHER SAW MOVIE...If they come out with Saw vs Freddy or Jason; I'm leaving the country.

In keeping with the annual Halloween tradition, producers decided to bring their audience this allegedly final installment of the unsettling series, and apparently wanted to go out in style with what has fast become an overused technique in three-dimensional effects. The "story" centers around a self-help author who purportedly survived the deceased Jigsaw's deadly game, and now tries to preach a message of strength to those around him. His newfound strength is put to the test however when he becomes the target of a new game, one which will also determine the fate of those close to him. Meanwhile, the cold-blooded Detective Hoffman tries to settle a score while evading the dogged pursuit of his fellow officers. After so many films, so many traps, and so much of the relentless evisceration, it would be pointless to complain about the film's content, but beyond a few startling 3-D moments, and even despite a relatively short running time, the whole thing feels like a prolonged, protracted, and downright boring exercise in this tired genre. Tries to wrap things up nice and neatly in the end, yet still can't hide the fact that this series has long run out of steam, or that this project is clearly uninspired. *½

The seventh and last installment lays down all its cards... or at least the rest of its cards. The series certainly went out with a bang to say the least. Fans and/or gorehounds will love it, and there's enough entertainment for some of those who aren't overly familiar with the series or forgot a thing or two in the previous six films. It is possibly the most appealing "Saw" film, knowing that it's ACTUALLY the finale. But where does that leave us with quality? For a ninety minute film with numerous returning characters and just as appealing brand new characters, not to mention the burden of trying to keep originality with a redundant back-story, "Saw 3D" does pretty good given the obstacles it's forced to work with. What most people will probably criticize is the lack of twists and turns that made us love the original so much... but lets be honest, has there even been any jaw dropping twists in the series since "Saw IV" or even as far back as "Saw II"? It's up for debate, but the story in the seventh installment is pretty straight forward and that may let some people down. Given that it's a seventh film in a series with impressive continuity, "Saw 3D" is actually a really great film for what it is.*** (out of four)

For this review I am going to provide a guide as to how you can ensure that a franchise will never continue. But first the plot if you can call it a plot.Detective Hoffman is still alive. Jill's attempt to kill him backfired when he found a way out of his supposedly inescapable trap. Whilst Hoffman is out to kill Jill he has to contend with setting up another set of traps for the lying Bobby Dagen and his friends. If Bobby is to make it to the end and save his wife, he will have to push himself to the limit.Step 1: The plot. Ensure your plot is convoluted and does not make sense in the slightest. If you are worried that it does, then provide meaningless flashbacks. If it ain't broke don't fix it. Why change the format when it worked for Saw IV, V and VI. Just rinse and repeat.Step 2: The main character. Who wants motivation, plausibility and character development? The answer nobody! Ensure your character is as bland as humanely possible. The make him unlikable, arrogant and self-absorbed. If he possesses any humanity wipe it out immediately!Step 3: Jigsaw. The main villain is not Jigsaw anymore. To let your audience know this, have Tobin Bell dress as a gangster for one scene so that he can embarrass himself. Then watch the less interesting Hoffman blunder from scene to scene.Step 4: The script. Make sure your script consists of lines that would make Sylvester Stallone worried. Fill it with profanity and the screams of human beings. When you have ninety pages of Horror clichés, you are almost ready to begin.Step 5: The Acting. Ensure your actors are human and made of meat and bone; if they can scream louder than a toddler hire them forthwith.Step 6: The camera work. The reason these films make so much money is because of their budget. You spent it on the traps, so borrow the cheapest hand held camera you can find and film all scenes in one take.Step 7: The length. Make your film as short as possible, but feel ten times the length. Your audience will wonder how it lasted so long.Step 8: The traps. Have as many traps as you want; the more the better. Who will notice pink blood? A lack of invention and tension? Nitpickers, that's who. If your audience is not sick within the first five minutes then you have failed them as a Director.Step 9: Closure. Do not allow for closure. Provide questions with no answers. This will mean that if a sequel is green light then you can slowly divulge the answers in Saw M.Step 10: The Obligatory Twist Ending. If the climax does not leave you scratching your head then change it again. Have characters you thought dead return, just so that you can destroy the brains of the audience.If you follow all of these steps, you can guarantee the death of a franchise. Or for a few years at least until, it is re-made, re- envisioned, re-booted or all of the above.

"If it's Halloween, then it must be Saw" We've heard this tag line repeated over the years, and it's no surprise another Saw film has popped up into cinemas. There is, however, a catch to this installment: it's the final chapter. As a loyal fan of the series, I was excited last year with Saw VI and saw it as the perfect opportunity to end the series. Sure there were a few unanswered questions, but I didn't think it was worth another film to get the answers. Obviously, the producers disagreed with me and not only went for a seventh installment, but also gave into the latest 3D phenomena to cash in some bucks.Financially, the producers put themselves in a nice position. There were tons of movie-goers paying to see Saw 3D. As far as credibility goes, the producers threw it out the window. Saw 3D is, without a doubt, the worst installment in the series. It's badreally badand I can't stress that enough. Not only does the film deliver a ridiculous plot, but it also fails visually, leaving movie goers with empty wallets and a short-coming 3D experience.Saw VIIexcuse me, I mean Saw 3Dtells the story of Bobby Dagen, a Jigsaw survivor who makes profit from his grisly experience by writing books and televising interviews on television. He also acts as a counselor to surviving Jigsaw victims, guiding them towards psychological recovery. Life seems good for Bobby, until he is thrust into a horrific game where the goal is to save his wife before the timer hits zero. Meanwhile, Detective Hoffman hunts down Jill Tuck, seeking revenge over the events of the last film.There's a lot going on in Saw 3D, and you honestly never get bored with it. There are eleven traps (the highest in franchise history) and the Hoffman and Jill story line is presented on the side. The problem, however, is that we've seen this all before. We've seen someone go through a series of tests against a timer, we've seen gruesome traps, and we've seen the now predictable twists. Not only is the material in the film recycled, it's poorly made. The plot is ludicrous, the acting is horrible, the traps lack creativity, and the 3D looks cheap and isn't utilized at all (pretty disappointing considering it was shot with 3D cameras).Tobin Bell, whose character died in Saw III, is in the film for an estimated five minutes, possibly even less. Carey Elwes, who played the infamous Dr. Gordon in the original Saw is back this time around, but also has very limited screen time. It's a shame that a majority of the main characters are pushed to the side for Bobby Dagen's game, which in essence, turns out to be a waste of time. The traps are boring, the shock value has completely disappeared, and you ultimately don't feel for any of the characters in the film. All of these cons, along with the cheap 3D, make for a horrible film that shouldn't even bear the Saw title.It's even difficult putting the blame on some of the film makers. Director Kevin Greutert was forced to return since Lionsgate had a clause in his contract for another film. He was set to direct Paranormal Activity 2, but was pulled in to Toronto a week before the filming of Saw 3D. He attempted vigorous re-writing of the script, but it proved to be difficult since a majority of the sets were already built. Greutert tries his best to salvage the film, but it ultimately falls into pieces due to the production and incoherent story line. Producer Mark Burg and writers Patrick Melton and Marcus Dunstan should be ashamed for giving into 3D and crazy fan theories online.Overall, the only positive thing about Saw 3D is that the franchise is finally over. It's run its course, and while I expected the film to be poor, I didn't expect it to come to this. After following the franchise for six long years, I honestly feel betrayed and cheated after the final twist. The Saw franchise started with an interesting concept and ran with it, but it fell flat on its face at the finish line.

Jill goes into protective custody, but after trying to kill Hoffman, he sets his sights on getting her. Jigsaw puts survivor and now successful author Bobby Dagen into the game.I know before I even start that this one is regarded as the weakest in the franchise by many, check out most of the online rankings list, and most are harsh on this one.I'm glad they toned down the soft focus flashbacks, 4 and 5 are full of them, they're too much, there are a few, but they're tolerable.For me, this one is still better than Saw 4, and possibly Saw 5. It's trashy, it's tacky, the story doesn't make sense, and some of the games are silly, but there are some pretty cool sequences.I've always liked the scene with the racist guy and his band of followers, that car seat scene is gross. Some of Bobby's games are pretty cool too.I loathed that opening game, it seemed so unlikely that Kramer would have put a game on for the public, everything had always been done in closed, shut off spaces, it felt at odds with his character, as did the hugely vindictive vendetta against Dagen, I know he lied, but compared to what some of Jigsaw's targets did, it seemed excessive.It is great to see a few faces from the show's past, and it was nice to see them play a part in the shocking twist. I also liked the twist from the original Saw movie.6/10.

This seventh chapter of the Saw series is billed as "The Final Chapter". Whether the series producers are true to their word (remember, the FOURTH Friday the 13th film carries the same billing) doesn't really matter all that much anymore. The story has been effectively driven into the ground with this terrible effort.There are so many things this movie does wrong that it's easier to just use a list to describe some of them:-The acting is atrocious. I'm not just talking in comparison with the other films. The acting in this one is some of the worst I've EVER seen.-Because it was made in 3D, the graphics are cheesy and the gore effects are all pinkish and over-the-top. The last bastion of reason to watch a Saw film (those brutal trap scenes) are effectively ruined by the 3D.-Whereas I thought this movie was going to really wrap up the series in a meaningful way, it instead has its own plot line for 80 minutes and lazily wraps up the "big picture" stuff in the final 10. Even the big "surprise" in the final minutes actually turned me off instead of provoking the desired "wow" effect.Essentially, a franchise that once re-invented and then rule the horror genre couldn't find a way to go out on a high (or even decent) note. The series should have ended after the third part, instead it muddled around in 4-6, and then dropped the final "stink-bomb" here. Avoid this film at all costs and remember the "good times" of the series instead (go re-watch 1-3).

I know is always "hip" and "chic" to dis a movie (specially a sequel), but whatever, I'm used to that and don't mind it, there will always be those... but I can tell you that I liked it a lot, and that it DOES indeed ties a lot of loose ends (the last 2 or 3 minutes of it are PURE GOLD)... no room for another sequel (unless they REALLY want it, but it would be like forcing it), this one DOES finish the whole arc of the story in a magnificent way. LOTS of GORE (more than usual, I would say); and yes, at some point you feel betrayed because it moves from the "Saw style" into the "slasher" genre, but just when you think that it will suck.. kaboom! It goes back to the SAW style we love and delivers the FINAL twist (with the "Hello Zepp" score!). Loved it! I will watch them all again once it hits DVD! GO WATCH IT!!!

It's what you expect. There is no shock factor. Die hard fans that know every little thing about the movie will see this ending coming. I think they should have taken more time to plan out the games and come up with a larger shock. It seemed forced but maybe my expectations were too high for what the final project should have been in my mind. The 3D factor was fun but it seemed that the movie was revolving around the 3D concept more than the story line. Finally it was way too short, it felt like they were already dragging out what they did have. I believe the writers were just in a hurry to tie up all the loose ends, but then again, many liked the "Final Chapter". I Love "Saw" and I always will but by far, this is the worst one.

If I could give this a rating of 0, I easily would. This was without a doubt the worst Saw film I have ever seen.I've been a fan of the Saw films since the start and while i think they should have ended it at the first, I've still managed to catch each one, each year, to see what kind of new ideas they have brought to the franchise.Unfortunately the ideas brought to this one were terrible.The trap in the opening scene was just ridiculous, a girl should die since she was been two-timing her boyfriend with some other guy. So they have a choice, the guys can kill each other or kill the girl. These are the kind of ideas that just require no thought or imagination whatsoever.Then, we are introduced to Bobby who was a survivor of a trap, yet we soon uncover that he was actually not in one of Jigsaws traps at all. He was merely trying to cash in on fame, by proclaiming he was one. Since the audience is introduced to this before Bobby must endure his test, we really don't feel anything for his character. As I was watching, I thought, I hope he fails and he is killed because it's awful to lie about that, simply to get yourself rich. But alas, he did not die! And at the end of it, I don't think he learned anything from his "game". Come to think of it, we never even see what happens to him. Instead we are brought to this.....Dr Gordon has returned! Wow what a surprise! Ugh, no not really. It was obvious that the producers were going to bring him back when realizing this would be the last Saw film and that they would want to make it as huge as possible. Unfortunately, the moment I saw him, I immediately knew how the movie would end with him being involved. How did I know? Because most fans wanted that. It seems that the writers didn't have any ideas so they thought they would browse the forums, jot down the whole "Gordon being involved theory" and end the film that way. While I have no issue with giving the fans what they want, that only appeals to some movies. It just didn't work for this movie. I don't like watching a movie and knowing how it will end. The whole point of Saw was to catch you by surprise with its ending but i was not surprised in the slightest bit. If anything, it just left it open for a future sequel.The acting in this film was also atrocious. The actor who played Gibson was awful, I laughed as he tried to pass himself off as serious. The other's were pretty much as average as always. Tobin Bell in my opinion is always the best actor in the Saw franchise. Was a shame we only saw him in 2 scenes though.Also as usual with these sequels, each one tries to outdo the last with it's level of blood and gore. This one was no exception. Except, this time, we have the opportunity to witness it in 3D. The 3D was pretty poor to be honest, was way too gimmicky and just involved chunks of bone and flesh fly at you. One thing that really bothered me was just how over-the-top the violence was. Particularly when Bobby is removing his teeth and blood is literally gushing out of his mouth like a waterfall. While most Saw films to this point have been over-the-top, this was just plain stupid.So to conclude, I did not enjoy this film at all and felt very disappointed once the credits rolled. For the final film, I expected it to be a huge surprise that would end the franchise on a high note. But it turned out to just be a lazily made film with a horrid ending. Hopefully this truly is the last Saw film because I will definitely not be going to see another after what they did to this one.

Everything has been leading to this. Or so you'd think. Let's be frank, if we've learn anything from our series of articles revisiting the Saw series over the last week, it's that the franchise is so wrapped up in retcons, flashbacks and time-bending shenanigans that you couldn't really be surprised if this one had turned out to take place in 2003, before even that very first film back in 2004.At the very least, I assure you that we're not looking at a prequel. This is very much a straight continuation from the end of Saw VI, and some time during the last year, we find Jigsaw's ex, Jill Tuck, has lost a considerable amount of bad ass points from having vengefully trapped Jigsaw's bungling successor, Hoffman, in a reverse bear trap. A year ago for us, moments ago for her, and yet, after witnessing Hoffman's escape, she rushes to the police for protection.Hoffman begins a reign of terror, taking games into broad daylight and into the heart of the already decimated police force, and he promises his old colleague, Detective Gibson, that the traps will continue until Jill is handed over to him. Ancillary to all of this, we meet self help entrepreneur Bobby Dagen, whose bestselling book about surviving one of Jigsaw's traps gets him caught up in another game. The final game, perhaps.A stalwart companion, who endured the Saw marathon along with me, came to see Saw 3D last night. Afterwards, he declared it the worst of the series, hands down. For him, this was the most disappointing and dissatisfying ending imaginable after all of the six films and all of the marketing hype around this being the series' conclusion.There's certainly a group of hardcore fans, who haunt places like the IMDb forums, and who will declare Saw VII to be the very best of the series and a fitting conclusion. However, I personally find it difficult to imagine this being anybody's favorite Saw film.It suffers from the same symptoms of the franchise fatigue that plagued the fourth and fifth installments. The story structure and the progression of the main game are disjointed and disaffecting, and aside from the opening sequence, the much anticipated public trap seen in the trailers, there's the same old lack of imagination.Most criminally, there's barely any John Kramer to be had. The series has only survived to this, its seventh installment, because death was not the end for Tobin Bell as Jigsaw. He's the very best thing about this series, and we had a partial return to form with Saw VI because the focus was back on his machinations from beyond the grave.Here, it's pretty much Hoffman's show, and with how much Costas Mandylor has previously paled in comparison with Bell, that's really bloody boring. More than that, it's a rip-off. Mandylor is reduced to a perpetual grimace as he chases poor Betsy Russell around. She deserved better than this too. Having bided her time as Jill for so many films, she's reduced to the stock scream queen role here, running away and hiding behind cabinets.Hell, most of the performances are wooden. What would a Saw film be without a little dramatic sawdust billowing around our B-movie players? In my revisit to Saw V, I gave Greg Bryk the dubious Honor of being The Worst Actor In Saw, and for his trouble, he makes a small cameo appearance here in a support group for other survivors of Jigsaw. However, he now gets the bronze as two other newcomers make late, but impressively awful turns.Firstly, there's Dean Armstrong as Cale. Not to give away what goes on with his character, but he gets a silver medal for some acting that had people in the screening I attended laughing out loud. The new worst actor In Saw, however, is Chad Donella as Gibson. Golly, he's bad. Not since Tommy Wiseau's cult classic, The Room, have you seen overacting this stilted, or this far removed from human behavior.On the plus side, I really have to praise Cary Elwes. It's been telegraphed by the filmmakers to all and sundry that he's back in this one, finally reprising the role of Dr. Lawrence Gordon to bookend the franchise. He serves almost as the Mount Doom of the series. With him, Saw was made, and only with him can it be unmade. And frankly, he's great in it, despite sounding decidedly closer to his native British accent than the last time he was Dr. Gordon.As to my friend's reaction, I can't really disagree, except to say that's it's nowhere near the worst of the series. I'd say it's the third worst overall, or to mark it positively, the fifth best. It is a disappointment, though, and a step backwards from the improvements we saw in Saw VI. The writers are just up to their old rubbish tricks, and director Kevin Greutert is on record saying he would rather have been directing Paranormal Activity 2 than another Saw sequel.With fledgling horror franchises ready to take its place in the form of Paranormal Activity or even Piranha, it goes without saying that Saw 3D should be the last gasp of a franchise that's been running on fumes for a while now. It suffers from the same problems as the worst of the sequels, but enough has been learn that it's more watchable than those earlier films.

Saw 3D is the last(7th) installment of the popular horror series. I'm going to get right into it, and be forewarned, there WILL BE SPOILERS!!!The plot: The plot evolves around a few stories, an Internal Affairs agent named Gibson looking to arrest Mark Hoffman, Jill Tuck looking for protection from Hoffman, an author named Bobby Deagan of a book called "survive" in which he details his survival of a jigsaw trap (SPOILER: he was never put in a trap...until this film, so don't rack your brain trying to figure out if he was in the last 6 films, he wasn't) Now, the plot was pretty decent, it wrapped up the series, plus there are huge twists, only problem, we have theorized on these twists years ago, and in most cases, we were right. One of the big surprises for me was seeing the DEMISE of Jill Tuck, I was legitimately surprised she was killed, but with saw no character is safe, not even the main ones. Everyone knows that Dr. Gordon has returned for this film, I won't say much on him, but I will say his screen time is limited, but the times he's on screen are great. Overall the plot held everything together, there were minor plot holes, but hey, what do you expect after 7 films. Acting: The acting was so-so. Tobin Bell was great as always, Hoffman was at his best and most menacing, Jill played her role nicely, Gibson was kind of lame to me. I don't know the actors name, but he comes off as more of a comedic actor than serious one at times and at times he kind of stood out for the wrong reasons.Overall: I gave this movie a 7 out of 10 for... +Hoffman being more menacing and bad-ass than ever +The return of Dr. Gordon (even if it felt a little "Yeah...we figured that") +The ending, for me anyways, was very well done. If you haven't seen the first one don't go see this one till you have. +Obviously made for the fans, if you haven't seen any of the films, watch them ALL first, the saw series was made to be a huge jigsaw puzzle with each film being a piece to that puzzle. The negatives, or, why I didn't give it a 10...-Gibsons acting and acting of those who were new to the film (excluding Linkin Park front man Chester Bennington, he surprised me. His part was short, but sweet.) fell short for me. Gibson felt more like a prick than a real protagonists.-The trap Hoffman left for Gibson was, without a doubt, the LAMEST trap in saw history, almost chuckled at this trap (I shouldn't chuckle during a horror movie when a trap in a saw movie is sprung)-Movie was shorter than I expected, about an 1hr and 30min. was hoping it be longer since it was wrapping up the series but it is what it is.-The obviously tacked on story of Bobby Deagan, this man fails all of his traps, all of them, his story was strictly for traps and gore alone, came off pretty shallow, but hey it's horror right?

I am a Saw fan. I want to make this statement clear before I make the following rant about Saw 3D.What started off 7 years ago by Whannel and Wan has been ruined by the new writers. The world of Jigsaw has been diluted by the new writers to a very poor slasher film of utter nonsense.If the writer's ideas run thin they just make another victim an accomplice. Shame on you Melton and Dunton - lazy writing. No film after Saw 3 makes sense to the series, although Saw 6 is watch-able as a standalone film.Despite my average feelings for 4 and my detest of 5, there is such a wealth of characters and back story that could have been used to make the final Saw epic. Instead we have been introduced to more new characters and over elaborate traps. (Really who is building these things and how much money and time do they have? More secret hide outs etc). One of the traps is a pop up machine gun! For Christ sake what were the writers thinking! The script is so bad that characters are even dreaming about traps. I am embarrassed for you Melton and Dunston.The original Saw was simplistic in it's brilliance, but had the gore of a horror movie and the tension of a thriller. This is what made it great. Even Saw 2 (which is not my favourite) and Saw 3 (possibly my favourite)continued this tradition with clever but simple traps and involving stories that were character driven.Fans cared about what happened to the victims, we cared for the anti- hero Jigsaw and we sympathised with the accomplice Amanda - whilst being disgusted and questioning our own morals. Unfortunately since Saw 4 we no longer care about any of the new characters or the plot. We just have a body count as the writers think this is what horror film are about. Saw was more than this. And now given the chance to put some closure to the series you misused the chance to correct your earlier work and made it even worse by wasting the screen time of Tobin and Cary.I wish I stopped viewing at Saw 3 as the remainder of the series has cashed in on what would have been an excellent trilogy.

There is no denying the impact the Saw series has had on not only the horror genre, but movies in general. Starting off as a little low-budget psychological thriller centred around two guys in a basement, this series has smashed box office records and created a new horror villain in Jigsaw. Since 2004 audiences have flocked to watch new victims meet their demise in an inventive and cruel way while relishing the inane plot twists and convoluted story, whilst others have condemned the series as "torture porn" and nothing but sick people coming up with sick traps for sick audiences.This latest entry stays true to its predecessors and delivers over-the-top, ultra-violent death scenes accompanied by a plot full of flash backs, surprise revelations and an overuse of the main theme. To explain the plot of Saw 3D is silly, as the whole point of a Saw film is to go in having no idea about any of the trips or twists and to enjoy them as they come at you from every which way. I will say; however, that the film does end well, and the story is wrapped up fairly nicely with no obvious need for a sequel (as this is hopefully the "final" film).Overall the film is very much the same as Saw VI (2009) which was also directed by Kevin Greutert. Like many of the sequels this has multiple stories going at once, but it doesn't quite gel. It all feels very choppy, and after awhile the sheer amount of changing scenes can get quite annoying as it takes away from the suspense which is often built up quite well. The editing, lighting, camera-work and music is all the same as the other entries, by now it is stock standard Saw settings. Jigsaw's traps are back and they are as nasty as ever, if there is one thing this movie delivers on, is fantastic gore. A word of caution (although you may be expecting this now): the 3D is a total waste of money and there are one or two cool effects utilised in the whole 90 minute movie. Do NOT expect something cool just because it was filmed in 3D, cos it ain't any better than the post-conversion films.On a final note, I have never been a huge fan of the Saw series, but looking back it has been an interesting ride. The first film, although flawed, had a great new concept and a shocking twist. Unfortunately the sequels took away from the first, creating a story based around traps and trying to fit as many twists in as possible. These last two entries by Greutert have been two of the strongest (as well as Saw III), but there are still glaring issues that prevent it from being a great movie. Saw fans will not be disappointed, anyone else should probably stay away unless you like buckets of blood and don't care about understanding the story! 3/5

It was not a perfect movie by any means, but Saw VI was the first Saw movie that really surprised me. Where the other films quickly became standard exercises in torture and brutality, it was the first film in the series that really made an attempt at building and elaborating the overarching storyline that had been developed over the entire series. Instead of merely hinting at things, we were getting full explanations, things began to make sense, and the movie on the whole was just a very satisfying and very enjoyable film. But much like its predecessors, it ended on a bit of a cliffhanger moment – leading us directly into Saw VII, or as it is more sadly referred to, Saw 3D.After barely surviving a trap meant to murder him, Hoffman (Costas Mandylor) is out for revenge on Jigsaw's (Tobin Bell) ex-wife Jill (Betsy Russell). But Hoffman is not just out for her blood – he has set-up a new game for Bobby Dagen (Sean Patrick Flanery), a survivor of a Jigsaw trap and self-help guru.If that does not sound like much, it is because there is not much to Saw 3D. Outside of the long awaited (and unfortunately spoiled) return of Dr. Gordon (Cary Elwes), there is nothing really notable about the film. Jigsaw, a character who must hold some sort of record for remaining the lead despite having died four movies ago, merely appears in an extended cameo. Jill was always a supporting player, but her screen time and presence has been drastically reduced even further. Hoffman's revenge ploy may drive the film, but he too barely appears. So much was tied up, answered and completed in Saw VI that this film feels merely like a film going through the motions to what should be the finale of the series.Instead of focusing on any of these characters for longer than a few seconds at the time, the film pays attention mostly to Flanery's character and a new detective, Gibson (Chad Donella). Both are described and developed in the quickest and most superfluous of ways (although there could have been a touch more explanation for the importance of Gibson to the storyline), and then help fill in the gaps on the way to the film's conclusion. Neither character or actor is strong enough to carry the movie, and having them help drag the film's running time out just made the film weaker at every interval. Worse yet, the script and story give no reason for the audience to invest any sort of feeling towards either character. Each Saw film hinged on one or an assortment of characters going through some form of game set up by Jigsaw or Hoffman, but there was a grand purpose in the end for why they go through that struggle. Here, the actions of these two characters seem inconsequential. You may hold out hope that there is some reason for their inclusion and participation in the grand finale, but in the end, there is nothing.The deaths are a bit of a mixed bag. On one hand, the film seems to have wisely amped up the victims "working together" motif for almost every trap scene in the film. It makes for a couple of interesting moments, but inevitably still ends with the requisite brutally gory deaths. And a few of the traps are interesting as well – particularly one involving a love triangle, saws, and a public display. And for fans of the series, one notable death involving a rather specific "device" will undoubtedly give cheers, laughter and nausea all at once. But outside of these notable tidbits, the creativity, originality and even the morbid "fun" that come from these traps and deaths seems to have been sucked out of the film. Much like the storyline, it all felt like filler padded out to fill gaps. It was a disappointment to say the least after the go-for-broke style of Saw VI, and only shows that the filmmakers are really starting to show how exhausted their imaginations are in this once gloriously and creative realm. The much hyped 3D does almost nothing for these traps and death scenes either. It is an amusing addition at first, but after getting a character's innards thrown at you for the third time, it starts to get a bit old and silly.But for everything else that is done so wrong, and so haphazard, the filmmakers manage to concoct an incredibly satisfying and wild shock of an ending. On one hand, it is without any doubt, the standout sequence of Saw 3D. Remember the awesome twists this franchise was originally known for? This one takes the cake, and brings the film more in line with the original films than the later ones. The sheer surprise and audacity of it all is just too good, and feels like it belongs in a significantly better film. It practically cheats the audience into sitting through such a horribly disappointing film just so they can get to this one moment of sheer greatness. On the other hand, it stands as an awesome conclusion and finale to the entire franchise. If the ads are correct and this is indeed the final chapter of Saw, then this may just be one of the most enjoyable and entertaining endings ever created. It just may force you to rethink everything that has come before it.I hate to say it, but Saw 3D is the worst and most disappointing film in the franchise. It will leave a rotten taste in your mouth, and just feels rushed, disjointed and convoluted. Saw VI showed a renewed creative vigor that just failed to connect with this film. The ending is the film's only real redeeming moment, and nearly makes up for everything that precedes it. Let's just collectively hope a reboot does not ruin its greatness.5/10.(This review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).

I was lucky enough to have seen this movie yesterday, and I went in with high expectations thinking that Kevin Greutert was behind the camera again. But I was sadly disappointed. Saw 3D was a jumbled mess. Only towards the end did it really pay off. And even then, there were STILL things I didn't like. Such as: Dr. Gordon. Why oh why was he in on it the entire time? That is almost bad enough to nearly ruin parts of the first one for me. I mean really? The writers couldn't have come up with an ending that will satisfy all Saw fans, and not just the Gordonites? Seriously! He saws his foot off in desperation to save his family, he cauterizes his wound, he is taken in by John, who heals his wound, then Gordon just decides to side with him? WHAT?! And the worst part is, they don't even shed some light on that. All they do, is show John take him in, heal his wound, then show him doing all of the things a doctor would need to do for the traps, such as the key behind Michael's eye in Saw II, the stitches put on Trevor and Art in Saw IV, and I think that's it. I HATED that. And there was a scene where Dr. Gordon goes up to John and shows Lynn Denlon from Saw III and states that "she'll be perfect." UGH. And if you haven't guessed by now, the package that Jill drops off at the hospital was for Dr. Gordon. Other problems I had with Saw 3D: the acting, the effects, the characters, the unanswered questions, the fact that Cary Elwes and Tobin Bell were BARELY IN THE MOVIE, and the no montage at the end. I could go on, but I seriously would come off as a hater, which I'm not. The ending, on the other hand, was great. It's something that we've ALL expected and wanted for a very long time. It shouldn't disappoint anyone. Predictable or not, we've ALL wanted it to happen. So don't complain that it was predictable. I have an extremely hard time accepting this as a part of the Saw series, just because of the pure fact that no Saw movie is BAD, except for this one. There are also so many more reasons, but I don't want to continue. Saw 3D is easily the worst Saw. Anyone who disagrees with that is either new to the series, or is a Gordonite. I mean, everyone has their own opinion, but I mean come on. I am extremely disappointed. This was just a big slap to the face for all hardcore Saw fans. And I don't blame Kevin Greutert. I blame the writers and the producers for this. Saw 3D was a mess, but I'm sure Saw VII would have been a good movie.6/10

Finally saw all the 'Saw' films prior to seeing 'Jigsaw' (as part of my wanting to see as many 2017 films as possible this year, during a quieter and less intensive period). Heard a lot about the films, good and bad, but wanted to see them for myself to know what to expect.The films as an overall series are a very mixed bag. While not without its faults, the first film is the best, followed by the second and sixth, while the just straining average fourth film is bang in the middle and the fifth and especially this being the weakest. 'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' couldn't have been a more underwhelming finish to a variable franchise and evidence of the novelty of a great premise being now well and truly dead. All the mistakes seen in the third and fifth films are repeated here and amplified while more is made on the way.'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' is not a completely irredeemable mess. The music score is still eerie and in something of a miracle Tobin Bell cuts a malevolent presence despite Jigsaw being even more underused and misused than in 'Saw V'. Sean Patrick Flanery is also pretty good.Everything else fails. Visually, 'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' is the worst-looking of the series. It's neither elaborate, claustrophobic or atmospheric, instead it's just extreme shoddiness and not only was the 3D very amateurishly constructed and poorly used it was completely pointless. Had a hard time believing that the same director who did so well in the previous instalment in tightening and steadying things and toning down what was done excessively in 'Saw III' and 'Saw V' also directed this film, almost like 'Saw VI' had been forgotten.Performances-wise, only Bell and Flanery are good. Everybody else has to work with thinly sketched characters that are either dull, annoying or both and a script that has replaced 'Saw V's' as the dreariest, most fatigued and contrivance-heavy one of the series. The excessively bland Costas Mandyler and irritating Chad Donella are especially poor.Mystery, suspense and creepiness are also completely missing, thanks to the shoddy production values, the over-reliance on gratuitously gruesome gore and violence, the serious lack of credibility and the severely rushed pacing. Although 'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' has the highest trap/death count, it's also the most illogically and repetitively plotted 'Saw' entry. There is nothing clever or imaginative about the traps and demises (a huge problem when the whole film was basically a series of them), no surprising or logical twists and the ending has to be one of the most anti-climactic ones in horrordom.Overall, what started as a promising franchise completely petered out in the flattest of ways here. 2/10 Bethany Cox

Yesterday me and my friends decided to have a Saw marathon, we watched saw 1 up to 6 then went to see the new and apparently last instalment aw 3D at the cinema. I went with incredibly high expectations, and in some ways was not disappointed, however there were a few things i was not overly keen on. (spoilers be warned) The negatives - 1. I expected the final game in the saw franchise to focus on someone rather more related to the saw franchise itself. Bobby's character not being known of or mentioned in any previous films ruined it a bit for me, plus the fact i saw him as a completely unlikable character didn't help. In the previous games there was usually a character that i wanted to prevail and survive (Gorden from Saw, Jeff from Saw 3 for example) but this guy didn't do it for me. 2. I so wanted Hoffman to survive (he is my favourite character) and although he isn't shown pyhsically dying in the film, the end clearly shows he has no way of escape. 3.3D! In many cases 3D films can be incredible, just look at avatar for example, however i feel that this was only 3D for the sake of making it 3d, it added nothing to the story and ultimately would have been just as good in 2D. This may just be me but i also thought that the 3D element of the film made it almost too shiny and polished. Saw in 3D just felt too gimmicky when the main focus should have been the fact that it was the last film in the series! The Positives - 1. The traps were pretty fantastic. They were far more imaginative than i expected. I thought Chester Bennington's car trap scene was brutal whilst being clear it was cleverly thought out. I wont go into every trap in detail as it would take too long but there are certainly some imaginative ones in there. 2. Despite Hoffman's demise at the end, he played the bad ass antagonist perfectly. The fact that he chose the old school reverse bear trap on Jill was perfect and throughout the film he remained ruthless. Even at the end when he was chained up, he went straight for the saw, in my eyes again proving he would do anything to survive. 3. The acting, i've heard from a few people that the acting was below par, i on the other hand did not find this to be the case. I thought every character played their role well. 4. The ending, despite predictable to some, was straight up epic. Lawrence Gorden's story was revealed and him ending it with the famous line "Game over!" gave me chills. Overall - In my opinion not one of the Saw films has surpassed the original, due to its pure originality and legitimately shocking twist. Saw 3D didn't have an incredible story, it had a slightly predictable twist but the bottom line is it wrapped the franchise up, answering (most) questions and was a fun film along the way. If you have seen the others and enjoyed them then you can't afford to miss this.

OK i was really excited to see how the SAW writers will end this successful horror/mystery franchise. since I'm a huge fan of SAW, i followed every interview made with the cast of this movie before going to c the film, from the writers of this franchise(Patrick Melton-Marcus Dunstan)& director Kevin Greutert to the main actors like Tobin Bell, Costas Mandylor, Cary Elwes and Betsy Russell. i can sum up what they were trying to say(or actually some of them said) in every interview in few words: >>(SAW 3D WILL BE THE BEST MOVIE IN THE SERIES)<<!!!!OMGbesides the disappointment,SAW 3D is a proof that u can top the box office and gain more money by lying to people and fans under the name of "ADVERTISEMENT". Anywayz,i do not blame the MAIN actors/actresses for this BAD movie, i blame the DIRECTOR, the WRITERS and the CASTING DEPARTMENT.REASONS Y SAW 3D IS ONE OF THE WORST IN THE SERIES: +quick explanation for previous films:-in saw 1, the main game was the bathroom, the other game or story was Zipp's game with Gordon's family, in the final twist we c that Zipp is not the bad guy, but the man lying in bathroom floor(jigsaw) is the one.(GREAT TWIST)-in saw 2, the main game was in the house, the other game or story was Eric Matthew's game with jigsaw, Eric was looking for his son(Daniel), in the final twist we c that the game that was running in the house was not live, then we discover that Daniel is in a safe place(in the safe) all the time.(GREAT TWIST)-in saw 3, the main game was jigsaw's game with Dr Lynn, the other game or story was Jeff's game(Lynn's husband), in the final twist we c that jigsaw was playing the game with Amanda, not Lynn, Jeff entered the room and killed jigsaw(the only person who knows where his daughter is).(GREAT TWIST)-in saw 4, the main game was Rigg's game, the other game or story was Hoffman, Eric Mathew and ART's game, and Strahm investigating in jigsaw's case, in the final twist we c that the events of saw 4 is actually running at the same time with the events of saw 3, Hoffman is the new accomplice and locking Strahm in the room.(NOT BAD TWIST)-in saw 5, the main game was the fatal five, the other game or story was Strahm with Hoffman, Strahm is the only man knew about Hoffman and was following him, in the final twist Strahm met Hoffman in a crashing room, pushed him in a glass box ,but we discover that this glass box is actually the only way to escape the crashing room, so Strahm dies.(BAD TWIST AND THE FATAL FIVE GAME IS NOT MUCH RELATED TO STRAHM-Hoffman GAME) bad movie for critics and fans, and got the lowest SAW movie rating.-in saw 6, the main game was William's game, the movie let us think that TARA & BRENT are William's family. the other game or story was Hoffman with Erickson, Perez and Jill. in the final twist we c that Tara and Brent aren't William's family, they are wife and son of a guy that died because of William's bad health insurance policies decisions. Jill put Hoffman in a trap but he escaped from it.(GOOD TWIST,GOOD PLOT AND IT WAS A HUGE IMPROVEMENT FROM SAW 5)NOW HERE COMES SAW 3D: -in saw 3d, huge side of the plot was talking about Bobby (he is a new character to the franchise) he has the main game in this movie, but we c bobby with jigsaw in a flashback only in ONE SCENE. WT*!.. in saw 6 William was a new character, he has the main game, huge part of the plot was talking about him and we c him with jigsaw in A lot of flashbacks scenes. but unfortunately that didn't happen for bobby and jigsaw in SAW 3D. on the other side of the film, we have Hoffman(superman) VS EVERYONE!! how could one person do what Hoffman did in saw 3d all by himself!!!-the actor that played Gibson was really bad, we laughed on his acting at some moments. his role was unnecessary. the writers just needed new detective and police officer, so they just brought this guy(Gibson) and gave him few lines and also put him in a pointless flashback with Hoffman.-Dr Gordon returns for saw 3d!! WOW, i cant believe. well, now i hope that he didn't return. bringing him back ruined the series. they showed us how Gordon used the hot pipe to stop the bleeding, then jigsaw came and told him u r my personal favorite and he became jigsaw's accomplice, WOOOWW, HUGE SURPRISE!! we don't want to c how Gordon have stopped the bleeding, WE WANT TO C HOW GORDON LIVED HIS NORMAL LIFE AND HOW HE BECAME AN ACCOMPLICE. the writers couldn't find any way to explain this to the audience, and couldn't find any way to fit this with the plot, so they decided to just show us what happened to him after he crawled in the hallway and then he become the accomplice.-3D is pointless and cheap.-Everything in the movie looked so FAKE and BAD, the dead bodies, the blood and the acting in some moments.-the writers have used fans theories to end this series, Dr Gordon is being an accomplice is one of them, this series depends on twists, so what is the point of using fans theories for the twists???? where is the twist in this film???-they focused on goriness rather than focusing on twists, no twists in this movie.-the movie was rush. 11 traps in one movie with bad plot.-the movie didn't add anything for the series, and it didn't answer all of the questions.

Saw 3D jumped the shark when:1.) It was made. 2.) In 3D. 3.) The public game. 4.) "Crazier than a sack of cats." 5.) The garage game. 6.) "You are all racists." 7.) Gangster Jigsaw. 8.) "We're breaking up with you." 9.) "Congratulations Dr. Gordon, you survived EVEN THOUGH YOUR GAME WAS TO KILL ADAM." 10.) Billy likes to smash through windows 11.) Hoffman sends out MPEGs everywhere 12.) Hoffman was a killer before Seth Baxter 13.) Rocket Ship go BOOM 14.) Let me throw a key towards a blind man. 15.) Every game is 90 seconds or shorter. 16.) Hoffman hides in body bags. 17.) Hoffman is Michael Myers. 18.) Jill runs like a clichéd horror movie chick 19.) Hoffman's miraculous fast healing stitching 20.) MACHINE GUN TURRET, RAMBO STYLE 21.) Slow motion death Matrix style 22.) Using the reverse bear trap for the THIRD damn time. Run out of ideas? 23.) Gordon is an apprentice YAWN 24.) Billy on wide screen HDTV 25.) Teeth pulling game: numbers on the bottom yea, unrealistic 26.) Promising the return of characters and whaddya know, they don't. 27.) Putting yet another person in the bathroom SIGH 28.) Contributing nothing to the storyThey showed a very poor interest to make a good movie. Saw 3D is a piece of *** and it's doomed to be a failure in any version.

Very overhated. This movie has a lot of problems, there's some moments when it's obvious that it was meant to be 3D, the twist ending is very predictable, there's a couple plot holes, the story is somewhat convoluted, a couple things should of had more screen time and explanation and the blood is pink. That being said this movie has some of the best traps in the entire series, every trap is golden and not just because it's gory but because it's clever there's a trick and puzzle to solve and a lot of the time it has importance to the characters. Also it is one of the most tense in the series and it concludes the series in a satisfying way, it could be better but for a 7 movie series this is a surprisingly well rounded and well done ending. The main protagonist while nowhere near as interesting as 6, 1 and 3 is still much more interesting than most saw protagonists and the detective stuff is fine, it's still very tense and your constantly wondering what's going to happen. This movie has many really interesting ideas and performs it in a well done way, everything comes full circle, all the arcs get finished up and it feels bombastic enough while still sticking to its roots that I think it's a perfectly good ending to the franchise.

This movie was a huge letdown , publicity made me believe that this will be final piece of the puzzle which will connect all the previous movies, so i was at least expecting something more intelligent and a shocker twist of an ending, what we got instead seemed to be a rushed attempt to close all loopholes from the previous chapters.I followed this SAGA not just because of the gore but also the story which i thought would end in a very epic scale ,this final chapter just offered more gore and took the simplest and easiest way out of the story, It felt like wasting a 7 year long wait for a good ending and instead we get a mediocre and Pointless one.

What can one attribute to another entry into the "Saw" franchise? Number 7 comes right on the heels of the 3D craze and purports to be its final chapter. So Jigsaw (Tobin Bell) is still dead and but his legacy still goes on in flashbacks. And in a protégé, Hoffman (Costas Mandylor). And in his widow, Jill (Betsy Russell). The entire soap opera of Jigsaw's family and professional life carries a narrative that attempts to reconcile the final film with the beginning of the franchise, and it definitely does seem to have recapitulated rather well for both hardcore fans as well as fairweather ones. But it has to be said that the films have been on a downward spiral since its fantastic first installment. It delivers the gore in more elaborate ways than the past few films have -- considering how quickly they were rushed out -- but loses that sense of cleverness and more importantly, that sense of menace that the franchise has always attempted to retain.After the previous six films, the franchise does not so much look through the eye of the victims anymore as it does its villains who have an entire mythology unto themselves. And "Saw 3D" almost solely focuses on Hoffman, who it really has to be said, is a sad substitute for Jigsaw. He carries on his messiah's waning moralistic philosophy by continuing to find victims in need of a baptism by blood but finds himself hindered by Jill who is now cooperating with the police and giving them everything she knows to spite her husband's latest protégé. Add to this one Bobby Dagen (an actually funny Sean Patrick Flanery), who has written a best-selling book and sold DVDs about being a Jigsaw survivor and profiting from Hoffman's hallowed gift of life. Suffice to say, he (and his wife) quickly becomes the main plaything of this film's grand guignol torture play with 60 minutes set on the clock.Now, even with the requisite twists and better-than-expected inventiveness of its traps, "Saw 3D" does not deliver in the least with its titular promise -- it's 3D sets yet another low standard for the technology. If the onus on watching this film is to attempt a different perspective, then it never quite reaches the mark. But who are we really kidding here? It's just one more excuse to milk this cash cow. The franchise has truly run its course. If you watched and enjoyed all seven of its films, at least you can be proud of that. Right? Anyone?www.moviexclusive.com

I think you need to look at the Saw movies like this: they are Friday the 13th movies with more innovation and creativity, not to mention much more sick gore. Obviously, if you didn't like any Friday the 13th, Halloween, or Nightmare on Elm Street movie, you should stop reading now, because your mind has been made up. You will hate this movie.In fact, to be perfectly fair, even people who liked the earlier Saw movies will find plenty to carp about here. Saw 3D purports to be the end of the series (oh sure, but we did have several movies after Friday the 13th VII: The Final Chapter), and if it is, it ends on a fairly conclusive note. Then again, Jigsaw himself died early in the series, and that didn't stop further movies from being made, so take that for what it's worth.I can't review this without some plot points from previous Saw movies, so if you haven't watched any of them and plan to, stop reading. OK, still with me? Let's recap.Mark Hoffman (Costas Mandylor) is the bad guy, having served as Jigsaw's accomplice (blackmailed into it, really), and he has a new game afoot. But complicating matters is Jigsaw's widow, Jill Tuck (Betsy Russell), who knows of Hoffman's involvement. Jill brings Internal Affairs detective Gibson (Chad Donella) into the mix, so Hoffman's dual goals of running the new game and getting to Jill Tuck drive the plot.The game involves a man named Bobby (Sean Patrick Flanery) who has profited mightily from having "survived" a Jigsaw trap; he's written a best-selling book and runs a support group and makes the talk-show rounds as well. But is Bobby on the up and up? Duh. As with all of Jigsaw's games, Bobby's games involve atoning for his own sins at the cost of some self sacrifice.The traps continue to be inventive, although some – like the face trap – make welcome returns. I was reminded briefly of an old episode of the radio serial The Shadow called "The House that Death Built," in which various traps (like a tripwire that triggered a double-barreled shotgun) were strewn about the house to keep people from finding treasure, or something. Bobby must go through several of these, much as victims had in earlier movies. And of course, by doing so he loses his pound or so of flesh, and secrets are revealed. Oh, and Carey Elwes, who played Dr. Gordon in the very first Saw movie, makes a return here – not giving away anything there, of course. He shows up to mock Bobby for having a support group in the first place (something about profiting off misery).Even though it's pretty important to have watched at least some of the earlier films, Saw 3D does its best to keep you in the loop, reminding us of certain characters and plots of previous films. For example, the support group includes bona fide survivors, such as one who needed to cut off her own arm to save herself.But for me, the best part comes at the very end, when All Is Revealed. As the movie's denouement approaches and the bodies pile up, you begin to wonder if Hoffman will emerge victorious – or if he's even the only bad guy out there. The ending answers both questions to some degree of satisfaction and helps to fill in missing information from the previous six movies as well. So on the one hand, the movie ends the series in a satisfying manner, and that's good.On the other hand, the door is left ever so slightly open for more and more Saw films. It's not impossible to believe. In fact, it's more plausible than the Friday the 13th "endings," because no matter how many times and in how many ways Jason was killed, he somehow came back to slaughter more virgins in the next movie. At least the Saw movies follow some sort of logic.For me, Saw 3D's 3D effects were well played indeed – if you don't mind intestines flying at you, you'll appreciate them. Not so much if you don't. The plot is less convoluted and intricate than some of the most recent installments, and the movie doesn't waste time on character development. Heck, you hardly even see the now-long-dead Jigsaw. The movie flat-out worked for me from a visual and visceral standpoint.

OK this movie was extremely disappointing. From the plot, do the characters, to the acting to the three 3D, it was one poorly written premise after the next.The first thing that was stupid...The opening trap...This one left me feeling the writers purposely set out to make it stupid and unbelievable. The scene opens with hundreds of people walking by the window with three people tied up (you only see two of them until the trap begins). The reason jigsaw puts them in the trap was just plain stupid (two guys manipulated by one girl), and must have taken 5 seconds to come up with...Also, does anyone honestly think in such a public place, no one would notice two people tied to construction equipment??? And then, the only attempt from the crowd to save them was one small women trying to bang the glass with a briefcase, obviously the glass wasn't going to break and so that was it, no more attempts...Really?? And not only that, but everyone was watching like it was some movie, taking pictures with their camera phone...I was literally laughing in the theater at how stupid it was...In the end, the only person who died was the girl, who frankly, out of the three, deserved it most, and you didn't care at all...Second thing that was stupid and totally not believable....Bobby's character or the main character...(Bobby was a guy who lied about surviving a jigsaw trap, so he could sell books and lead a publicized support group of real jigsaw survivors) This again made me feel like the writers just gave up and used the first idea that came to mind...Why was it not believable? Because if someone had gone through a jigsaw trap, there would have been a police report a thorough investigation, all sorts of documentation about what happened, where it happened, people involved, hospital reports about his injuries...So how he can write an entire book, get it published, do book signings, go on TV, lead a support group; without having any proof other than fake scars is BEYOND ME...Not only that, but the decision to make Bobby's trap about going through a house and trying to help out his colleagues is completely unoriginal...(SPOILER) After everything unfolded and everyone died, I was left feeling that writers didn't want to make anyone live because then they would have had to think harder about the plot...Besides the characters in the traps are so thin and meaningless to the other characters, you really don't care at all when they die because they contribute nothing to the story line anyway...Third thing that was stupid...Hoffman's character....His motive the entire movie was revenge on Jill tuck for putting him a trap...(Spoiler) His character for the entire movie was nothing more than a thug...He just walked around stabbing people in the neck until he got to Jill...I mean how freaking stupid is that? Again, I was left feeling the writers had no desire to put anymore thought into the movie and said "Screw it, I'm done thinking about this movie...Let's just make him stab people in the neck and be done with it.."Fourth thing that was stupid...Gibson's character...In the past, Hoffman saved this cop's life (told to the audience via flashback) but then brutally killed Gibson's attacker, Gibson reported him for excessive brutality and Hoffman held a grudge ever since...STUPID premise!! (Spoiler) The goose chase Hoffman puts them on was retarded and required no thought...He led them to a room and they all got shot by a sub machine gun.Fifth that was stupid...The ending and Doctor Gordon's character....(Total Spoiler) It was always rumored before Saw 7 came out that Doctor Gordon was still alive helping out jigsaw...So I was really excited to see how it would pan out...Man, what a disappointment...You see him once in the survivor support group for about 30 seconds and then doesn't show up until the last two or three minutes of the movie, where he attacks Hoffman....The writers decided that a thirty second flash back was all that was necessary to explain his involvement with Jigsaw, after that, he puts Hoffman in the room from the first movie (where Dr. Gordon originally hacked off his own leg) and shuts the door...You don't see him die! And the movie ends...(Spoiler) But wait, what happened to Bobby? Nothing, he goes through each trap, trying to save the lives of his colleagues, but fails them all...He finally gets to his wife in the last trap, fails at saving her, she is burned alive and the last time you see him on the screen is crying in front of the furnace that is burning his wife. Out of any character in the movie, I really wanted her to live because she did absolutely nothing wrong...So again, this movie was such a waste of time...The plot on ALL LEVELS felt rushed and meaningless, completely unoriginal and POORLY written....Perhaps I held it to a higher standard because the first one was BRILLIANT!!! and the others good, but it's really nothing more than a mindless slasher movie...In fact, the only thing I can say good about the movie is the traps are pretty cool...There are a lot of them, and they're creative...All that being said, I am glad I saw it... because at least now, I have NO DESIRE TO SEE ANOTHER SAW MOVIE...If they come out with Saw vs Freddy or Jason; I'm leaving the country.

In keeping with the annual Halloween tradition, producers decided to bring their audience this allegedly final installment of the unsettling series, and apparently wanted to go out in style with what has fast become an overused technique in three-dimensional effects. The "story" centers around a self-help author who purportedly survived the deceased Jigsaw's deadly game, and now tries to preach a message of strength to those around him. His newfound strength is put to the test however when he becomes the target of a new game, one which will also determine the fate of those close to him. Meanwhile, the cold-blooded Detective Hoffman tries to settle a score while evading the dogged pursuit of his fellow officers. After so many films, so many traps, and so much of the relentless evisceration, it would be pointless to complain about the film's content, but beyond a few startling 3-D moments, and even despite a relatively short running time, the whole thing feels like a prolonged, protracted, and downright boring exercise in this tired genre. Tries to wrap things up nice and neatly in the end, yet still can't hide the fact that this series has long run out of steam, or that this project is clearly uninspired. *½

The seventh and last installment lays down all its cards... or at least the rest of its cards. The series certainly went out with a bang to say the least. Fans and/or gorehounds will love it, and there's enough entertainment for some of those who aren't overly familiar with the series or forgot a thing or two in the previous six films. It is possibly the most appealing "Saw" film, knowing that it's ACTUALLY the finale. But where does that leave us with quality? For a ninety minute film with numerous returning characters and just as appealing brand new characters, not to mention the burden of trying to keep originality with a redundant back-story, "Saw 3D" does pretty good given the obstacles it's forced to work with. What most people will probably criticize is the lack of twists and turns that made us love the original so much... but lets be honest, has there even been any jaw dropping twists in the series since "Saw IV" or even as far back as "Saw II"? It's up for debate, but the story in the seventh installment is pretty straight forward and that may let some people down. Given that it's a seventh film in a series with impressive continuity, "Saw 3D" is actually a really great film for what it is.*** (out of four)

For this review I am going to provide a guide as to how you can ensure that a franchise will never continue. But first the plot if you can call it a plot.Detective Hoffman is still alive. Jill's attempt to kill him backfired when he found a way out of his supposedly inescapable trap. Whilst Hoffman is out to kill Jill he has to contend with setting up another set of traps for the lying Bobby Dagen and his friends. If Bobby is to make it to the end and save his wife, he will have to push himself to the limit.Step 1: The plot. Ensure your plot is convoluted and does not make sense in the slightest. If you are worried that it does, then provide meaningless flashbacks. If it ain't broke don't fix it. Why change the format when it worked for Saw IV, V and VI. Just rinse and repeat.Step 2: The main character. Who wants motivation, plausibility and character development? The answer nobody! Ensure your character is as bland as humanely possible. The make him unlikable, arrogant and self-absorbed. If he possesses any humanity wipe it out immediately!Step 3: Jigsaw. The main villain is not Jigsaw anymore. To let your audience know this, have Tobin Bell dress as a gangster for one scene so that he can embarrass himself. Then watch the less interesting Hoffman blunder from scene to scene.Step 4: The script. Make sure your script consists of lines that would make Sylvester Stallone worried. Fill it with profanity and the screams of human beings. When you have ninety pages of Horror clichés, you are almost ready to begin.Step 5: The Acting. Ensure your actors are human and made of meat and bone; if they can scream louder than a toddler hire them forthwith.Step 6: The camera work. The reason these films make so much money is because of their budget. You spent it on the traps, so borrow the cheapest hand held camera you can find and film all scenes in one take.Step 7: The length. Make your film as short as possible, but feel ten times the length. Your audience will wonder how it lasted so long.Step 8: The traps. Have as many traps as you want; the more the better. Who will notice pink blood? A lack of invention and tension? Nitpickers, that's who. If your audience is not sick within the first five minutes then you have failed them as a Director.Step 9: Closure. Do not allow for closure. Provide questions with no answers. This will mean that if a sequel is green light then you can slowly divulge the answers in Saw M.Step 10: The Obligatory Twist Ending. If the climax does not leave you scratching your head then change it again. Have characters you thought dead return, just so that you can destroy the brains of the audience.If you follow all of these steps, you can guarantee the death of a franchise. Or for a few years at least until, it is re-made, re- envisioned, re-booted or all of the above.

"If it's Halloween, then it must be Saw" We've heard this tag line repeated over the years, and it's no surprise another Saw film has popped up into cinemas. There is, however, a catch to this installment: it's the final chapter. As a loyal fan of the series, I was excited last year with Saw VI and saw it as the perfect opportunity to end the series. Sure there were a few unanswered questions, but I didn't think it was worth another film to get the answers. Obviously, the producers disagreed with me and not only went for a seventh installment, but also gave into the latest 3D phenomena to cash in some bucks.Financially, the producers put themselves in a nice position. There were tons of movie-goers paying to see Saw 3D. As far as credibility goes, the producers threw it out the window. Saw 3D is, without a doubt, the worst installment in the series. It's badreally badand I can't stress that enough. Not only does the film deliver a ridiculous plot, but it also fails visually, leaving movie goers with empty wallets and a short-coming 3D experience.Saw VIIexcuse me, I mean Saw 3Dtells the story of Bobby Dagen, a Jigsaw survivor who makes profit from his grisly experience by writing books and televising interviews on television. He also acts as a counselor to surviving Jigsaw victims, guiding them towards psychological recovery. Life seems good for Bobby, until he is thrust into a horrific game where the goal is to save his wife before the timer hits zero. Meanwhile, Detective Hoffman hunts down Jill Tuck, seeking revenge over the events of the last film.There's a lot going on in Saw 3D, and you honestly never get bored with it. There are eleven traps (the highest in franchise history) and the Hoffman and Jill story line is presented on the side. The problem, however, is that we've seen this all before. We've seen someone go through a series of tests against a timer, we've seen gruesome traps, and we've seen the now predictable twists. Not only is the material in the film recycled, it's poorly made. The plot is ludicrous, the acting is horrible, the traps lack creativity, and the 3D looks cheap and isn't utilized at all (pretty disappointing considering it was shot with 3D cameras).Tobin Bell, whose character died in Saw III, is in the film for an estimated five minutes, possibly even less. Carey Elwes, who played the infamous Dr. Gordon in the original Saw is back this time around, but also has very limited screen time. It's a shame that a majority of the main characters are pushed to the side for Bobby Dagen's game, which in essence, turns out to be a waste of time. The traps are boring, the shock value has completely disappeared, and you ultimately don't feel for any of the characters in the film. All of these cons, along with the cheap 3D, make for a horrible film that shouldn't even bear the Saw title.It's even difficult putting the blame on some of the film makers. Director Kevin Greutert was forced to return since Lionsgate had a clause in his contract for another film. He was set to direct Paranormal Activity 2, but was pulled in to Toronto a week before the filming of Saw 3D. He attempted vigorous re-writing of the script, but it proved to be difficult since a majority of the sets were already built. Greutert tries his best to salvage the film, but it ultimately falls into pieces due to the production and incoherent story line. Producer Mark Burg and writers Patrick Melton and Marcus Dunstan should be ashamed for giving into 3D and crazy fan theories online.Overall, the only positive thing about Saw 3D is that the franchise is finally over. It's run its course, and while I expected the film to be poor, I didn't expect it to come to this. After following the franchise for six long years, I honestly feel betrayed and cheated after the final twist. The Saw franchise started with an interesting concept and ran with it, but it fell flat on its face at the finish line.

Jill goes into protective custody, but after trying to kill Hoffman, he sets his sights on getting her. Jigsaw puts survivor and now successful author Bobby Dagen into the game.I know before I even start that this one is regarded as the weakest in the franchise by many, check out most of the online rankings list, and most are harsh on this one.I'm glad they toned down the soft focus flashbacks, 4 and 5 are full of them, they're too much, there are a few, but they're tolerable.For me, this one is still better than Saw 4, and possibly Saw 5. It's trashy, it's tacky, the story doesn't make sense, and some of the games are silly, but there are some pretty cool sequences.I've always liked the scene with the racist guy and his band of followers, that car seat scene is gross. Some of Bobby's games are pretty cool too.I loathed that opening game, it seemed so unlikely that Kramer would have put a game on for the public, everything had always been done in closed, shut off spaces, it felt at odds with his character, as did the hugely vindictive vendetta against Dagen, I know he lied, but compared to what some of Jigsaw's targets did, it seemed excessive.It is great to see a few faces from the show's past, and it was nice to see them play a part in the shocking twist. I also liked the twist from the original Saw movie.6/10.

This seventh chapter of the Saw series is billed as "The Final Chapter". Whether the series producers are true to their word (remember, the FOURTH Friday the 13th film carries the same billing) doesn't really matter all that much anymore. The story has been effectively driven into the ground with this terrible effort.There are so many things this movie does wrong that it's easier to just use a list to describe some of them:-The acting is atrocious. I'm not just talking in comparison with the other films. The acting in this one is some of the worst I've EVER seen.-Because it was made in 3D, the graphics are cheesy and the gore effects are all pinkish and over-the-top. The last bastion of reason to watch a Saw film (those brutal trap scenes) are effectively ruined by the 3D.-Whereas I thought this movie was going to really wrap up the series in a meaningful way, it instead has its own plot line for 80 minutes and lazily wraps up the "big picture" stuff in the final 10. Even the big "surprise" in the final minutes actually turned me off instead of provoking the desired "wow" effect.Essentially, a franchise that once re-invented and then rule the horror genre couldn't find a way to go out on a high (or even decent) note. The series should have ended after the third part, instead it muddled around in 4-6, and then dropped the final "stink-bomb" here. Avoid this film at all costs and remember the "good times" of the series instead (go re-watch 1-3).

I know is always "hip" and "chic" to dis a movie (specially a sequel), but whatever, I'm used to that and don't mind it, there will always be those... but I can tell you that I liked it a lot, and that it DOES indeed ties a lot of loose ends (the last 2 or 3 minutes of it are PURE GOLD)... no room for another sequel (unless they REALLY want it, but it would be like forcing it), this one DOES finish the whole arc of the story in a magnificent way. LOTS of GORE (more than usual, I would say); and yes, at some point you feel betrayed because it moves from the "Saw style" into the "slasher" genre, but just when you think that it will suck.. kaboom! It goes back to the SAW style we love and delivers the FINAL twist (with the "Hello Zepp" score!). Loved it! I will watch them all again once it hits DVD! GO WATCH IT!!!

It's what you expect. There is no shock factor. Die hard fans that know every little thing about the movie will see this ending coming. I think they should have taken more time to plan out the games and come up with a larger shock. It seemed forced but maybe my expectations were too high for what the final project should have been in my mind. The 3D factor was fun but it seemed that the movie was revolving around the 3D concept more than the story line. Finally it was way too short, it felt like they were already dragging out what they did have. I believe the writers were just in a hurry to tie up all the loose ends, but then again, many liked the "Final Chapter". I Love "Saw" and I always will but by far, this is the worst one.

If I could give this a rating of 0, I easily would. This was without a doubt the worst Saw film I have ever seen.I've been a fan of the Saw films since the start and while i think they should have ended it at the first, I've still managed to catch each one, each year, to see what kind of new ideas they have brought to the franchise.Unfortunately the ideas brought to this one were terrible.The trap in the opening scene was just ridiculous, a girl should die since she was been two-timing her boyfriend with some other guy. So they have a choice, the guys can kill each other or kill the girl. These are the kind of ideas that just require no thought or imagination whatsoever.Then, we are introduced to Bobby who was a survivor of a trap, yet we soon uncover that he was actually not in one of Jigsaws traps at all. He was merely trying to cash in on fame, by proclaiming he was one. Since the audience is introduced to this before Bobby must endure his test, we really don't feel anything for his character. As I was watching, I thought, I hope he fails and he is killed because it's awful to lie about that, simply to get yourself rich. But alas, he did not die! And at the end of it, I don't think he learned anything from his "game". Come to think of it, we never even see what happens to him. Instead we are brought to this.....Dr Gordon has returned! Wow what a surprise! Ugh, no not really. It was obvious that the producers were going to bring him back when realizing this would be the last Saw film and that they would want to make it as huge as possible. Unfortunately, the moment I saw him, I immediately knew how the movie would end with him being involved. How did I know? Because most fans wanted that. It seems that the writers didn't have any ideas so they thought they would browse the forums, jot down the whole "Gordon being involved theory" and end the film that way. While I have no issue with giving the fans what they want, that only appeals to some movies. It just didn't work for this movie. I don't like watching a movie and knowing how it will end. The whole point of Saw was to catch you by surprise with its ending but i was not surprised in the slightest bit. If anything, it just left it open for a future sequel.The acting in this film was also atrocious. The actor who played Gibson was awful, I laughed as he tried to pass himself off as serious. The other's were pretty much as average as always. Tobin Bell in my opinion is always the best actor in the Saw franchise. Was a shame we only saw him in 2 scenes though.Also as usual with these sequels, each one tries to outdo the last with it's level of blood and gore. This one was no exception. Except, this time, we have the opportunity to witness it in 3D. The 3D was pretty poor to be honest, was way too gimmicky and just involved chunks of bone and flesh fly at you. One thing that really bothered me was just how over-the-top the violence was. Particularly when Bobby is removing his teeth and blood is literally gushing out of his mouth like a waterfall. While most Saw films to this point have been over-the-top, this was just plain stupid.So to conclude, I did not enjoy this film at all and felt very disappointed once the credits rolled. For the final film, I expected it to be a huge surprise that would end the franchise on a high note. But it turned out to just be a lazily made film with a horrid ending. Hopefully this truly is the last Saw film because I will definitely not be going to see another after what they did to this one.

Everything has been leading to this. Or so you'd think. Let's be frank, if we've learn anything from our series of articles revisiting the Saw series over the last week, it's that the franchise is so wrapped up in retcons, flashbacks and time-bending shenanigans that you couldn't really be surprised if this one had turned out to take place in 2003, before even that very first film back in 2004.At the very least, I assure you that we're not looking at a prequel. This is very much a straight continuation from the end of Saw VI, and some time during the last year, we find Jigsaw's ex, Jill Tuck, has lost a considerable amount of bad ass points from having vengefully trapped Jigsaw's bungling successor, Hoffman, in a reverse bear trap. A year ago for us, moments ago for her, and yet, after witnessing Hoffman's escape, she rushes to the police for protection.Hoffman begins a reign of terror, taking games into broad daylight and into the heart of the already decimated police force, and he promises his old colleague, Detective Gibson, that the traps will continue until Jill is handed over to him. Ancillary to all of this, we meet self help entrepreneur Bobby Dagen, whose bestselling book about surviving one of Jigsaw's traps gets him caught up in another game. The final game, perhaps.A stalwart companion, who endured the Saw marathon along with me, came to see Saw 3D last night. Afterwards, he declared it the worst of the series, hands down. For him, this was the most disappointing and dissatisfying ending imaginable after all of the six films and all of the marketing hype around this being the series' conclusion.There's certainly a group of hardcore fans, who haunt places like the IMDb forums, and who will declare Saw VII to be the very best of the series and a fitting conclusion. However, I personally find it difficult to imagine this being anybody's favorite Saw film.It suffers from the same symptoms of the franchise fatigue that plagued the fourth and fifth installments. The story structure and the progression of the main game are disjointed and disaffecting, and aside from the opening sequence, the much anticipated public trap seen in the trailers, there's the same old lack of imagination.Most criminally, there's barely any John Kramer to be had. The series has only survived to this, its seventh installment, because death was not the end for Tobin Bell as Jigsaw. He's the very best thing about this series, and we had a partial return to form with Saw VI because the focus was back on his machinations from beyond the grave.Here, it's pretty much Hoffman's show, and with how much Costas Mandylor has previously paled in comparison with Bell, that's really bloody boring. More than that, it's a rip-off. Mandylor is reduced to a perpetual grimace as he chases poor Betsy Russell around. She deserved better than this too. Having bided her time as Jill for so many films, she's reduced to the stock scream queen role here, running away and hiding behind cabinets.Hell, most of the performances are wooden. What would a Saw film be without a little dramatic sawdust billowing around our B-movie players? In my revisit to Saw V, I gave Greg Bryk the dubious Honor of being The Worst Actor In Saw, and for his trouble, he makes a small cameo appearance here in a support group for other survivors of Jigsaw. However, he now gets the bronze as two other newcomers make late, but impressively awful turns.Firstly, there's Dean Armstrong as Cale. Not to give away what goes on with his character, but he gets a silver medal for some acting that had people in the screening I attended laughing out loud. The new worst actor In Saw, however, is Chad Donella as Gibson. Golly, he's bad. Not since Tommy Wiseau's cult classic, The Room, have you seen overacting this stilted, or this far removed from human behavior.On the plus side, I really have to praise Cary Elwes. It's been telegraphed by the filmmakers to all and sundry that he's back in this one, finally reprising the role of Dr. Lawrence Gordon to bookend the franchise. He serves almost as the Mount Doom of the series. With him, Saw was made, and only with him can it be unmade. And frankly, he's great in it, despite sounding decidedly closer to his native British accent than the last time he was Dr. Gordon.As to my friend's reaction, I can't really disagree, except to say that's it's nowhere near the worst of the series. I'd say it's the third worst overall, or to mark it positively, the fifth best. It is a disappointment, though, and a step backwards from the improvements we saw in Saw VI. The writers are just up to their old rubbish tricks, and director Kevin Greutert is on record saying he would rather have been directing Paranormal Activity 2 than another Saw sequel.With fledgling horror franchises ready to take its place in the form of Paranormal Activity or even Piranha, it goes without saying that Saw 3D should be the last gasp of a franchise that's been running on fumes for a while now. It suffers from the same problems as the worst of the sequels, but enough has been learn that it's more watchable than those earlier films.

Saw 3D is the last(7th) installment of the popular horror series. I'm going to get right into it, and be forewarned, there WILL BE SPOILERS!!!The plot: The plot evolves around a few stories, an Internal Affairs agent named Gibson looking to arrest Mark Hoffman, Jill Tuck looking for protection from Hoffman, an author named Bobby Deagan of a book called "survive" in which he details his survival of a jigsaw trap (SPOILER: he was never put in a trap...until this film, so don't rack your brain trying to figure out if he was in the last 6 films, he wasn't) Now, the plot was pretty decent, it wrapped up the series, plus there are huge twists, only problem, we have theorized on these twists years ago, and in most cases, we were right. One of the big surprises for me was seeing the DEMISE of Jill Tuck, I was legitimately surprised she was killed, but with saw no character is safe, not even the main ones. Everyone knows that Dr. Gordon has returned for this film, I won't say much on him, but I will say his screen time is limited, but the times he's on screen are great. Overall the plot held everything together, there were minor plot holes, but hey, what do you expect after 7 films. Acting: The acting was so-so. Tobin Bell was great as always, Hoffman was at his best and most menacing, Jill played her role nicely, Gibson was kind of lame to me. I don't know the actors name, but he comes off as more of a comedic actor than serious one at times and at times he kind of stood out for the wrong reasons.Overall: I gave this movie a 7 out of 10 for... +Hoffman being more menacing and bad-ass than ever +The return of Dr. Gordon (even if it felt a little "Yeah...we figured that") +The ending, for me anyways, was very well done. If you haven't seen the first one don't go see this one till you have. +Obviously made for the fans, if you haven't seen any of the films, watch them ALL first, the saw series was made to be a huge jigsaw puzzle with each film being a piece to that puzzle. The negatives, or, why I didn't give it a 10...-Gibsons acting and acting of those who were new to the film (excluding Linkin Park front man Chester Bennington, he surprised me. His part was short, but sweet.) fell short for me. Gibson felt more like a prick than a real protagonists.-The trap Hoffman left for Gibson was, without a doubt, the LAMEST trap in saw history, almost chuckled at this trap (I shouldn't chuckle during a horror movie when a trap in a saw movie is sprung)-Movie was shorter than I expected, about an 1hr and 30min. was hoping it be longer since it was wrapping up the series but it is what it is.-The obviously tacked on story of Bobby Deagan, this man fails all of his traps, all of them, his story was strictly for traps and gore alone, came off pretty shallow, but hey it's horror right?

I am a Saw fan. I want to make this statement clear before I make the following rant about Saw 3D.What started off 7 years ago by Whannel and Wan has been ruined by the new writers. The world of Jigsaw has been diluted by the new writers to a very poor slasher film of utter nonsense.If the writer's ideas run thin they just make another victim an accomplice. Shame on you Melton and Dunton - lazy writing. No film after Saw 3 makes sense to the series, although Saw 6 is watch-able as a standalone film.Despite my average feelings for 4 and my detest of 5, there is such a wealth of characters and back story that could have been used to make the final Saw epic. Instead we have been introduced to more new characters and over elaborate traps. (Really who is building these things and how much money and time do they have? More secret hide outs etc). One of the traps is a pop up machine gun! For Christ sake what were the writers thinking! The script is so bad that characters are even dreaming about traps. I am embarrassed for you Melton and Dunston.The original Saw was simplistic in it's brilliance, but had the gore of a horror movie and the tension of a thriller. This is what made it great. Even Saw 2 (which is not my favourite) and Saw 3 (possibly my favourite)continued this tradition with clever but simple traps and involving stories that were character driven.Fans cared about what happened to the victims, we cared for the anti- hero Jigsaw and we sympathised with the accomplice Amanda - whilst being disgusted and questioning our own morals. Unfortunately since Saw 4 we no longer care about any of the new characters or the plot. We just have a body count as the writers think this is what horror film are about. Saw was more than this. And now given the chance to put some closure to the series you misused the chance to correct your earlier work and made it even worse by wasting the screen time of Tobin and Cary.I wish I stopped viewing at Saw 3 as the remainder of the series has cashed in on what would have been an excellent trilogy.

There is no denying the impact the Saw series has had on not only the horror genre, but movies in general. Starting off as a little low-budget psychological thriller centred around two guys in a basement, this series has smashed box office records and created a new horror villain in Jigsaw. Since 2004 audiences have flocked to watch new victims meet their demise in an inventive and cruel way while relishing the inane plot twists and convoluted story, whilst others have condemned the series as "torture porn" and nothing but sick people coming up with sick traps for sick audiences.This latest entry stays true to its predecessors and delivers over-the-top, ultra-violent death scenes accompanied by a plot full of flash backs, surprise revelations and an overuse of the main theme. To explain the plot of Saw 3D is silly, as the whole point of a Saw film is to go in having no idea about any of the trips or twists and to enjoy them as they come at you from every which way. I will say; however, that the film does end well, and the story is wrapped up fairly nicely with no obvious need for a sequel (as this is hopefully the "final" film).Overall the film is very much the same as Saw VI (2009) which was also directed by Kevin Greutert. Like many of the sequels this has multiple stories going at once, but it doesn't quite gel. It all feels very choppy, and after awhile the sheer amount of changing scenes can get quite annoying as it takes away from the suspense which is often built up quite well. The editing, lighting, camera-work and music is all the same as the other entries, by now it is stock standard Saw settings. Jigsaw's traps are back and they are as nasty as ever, if there is one thing this movie delivers on, is fantastic gore. A word of caution (although you may be expecting this now): the 3D is a total waste of money and there are one or two cool effects utilised in the whole 90 minute movie. Do NOT expect something cool just because it was filmed in 3D, cos it ain't any better than the post-conversion films.On a final note, I have never been a huge fan of the Saw series, but looking back it has been an interesting ride. The first film, although flawed, had a great new concept and a shocking twist. Unfortunately the sequels took away from the first, creating a story based around traps and trying to fit as many twists in as possible. These last two entries by Greutert have been two of the strongest (as well as Saw III), but there are still glaring issues that prevent it from being a great movie. Saw fans will not be disappointed, anyone else should probably stay away unless you like buckets of blood and don't care about understanding the story! 3/5

It was not a perfect movie by any means, but Saw VI was the first Saw movie that really surprised me. Where the other films quickly became standard exercises in torture and brutality, it was the first film in the series that really made an attempt at building and elaborating the overarching storyline that had been developed over the entire series. Instead of merely hinting at things, we were getting full explanations, things began to make sense, and the movie on the whole was just a very satisfying and very enjoyable film. But much like its predecessors, it ended on a bit of a cliffhanger moment – leading us directly into Saw VII, or as it is more sadly referred to, Saw 3D.After barely surviving a trap meant to murder him, Hoffman (Costas Mandylor) is out for revenge on Jigsaw's (Tobin Bell) ex-wife Jill (Betsy Russell). But Hoffman is not just out for her blood – he has set-up a new game for Bobby Dagen (Sean Patrick Flanery), a survivor of a Jigsaw trap and self-help guru.If that does not sound like much, it is because there is not much to Saw 3D. Outside of the long awaited (and unfortunately spoiled) return of Dr. Gordon (Cary Elwes), there is nothing really notable about the film. Jigsaw, a character who must hold some sort of record for remaining the lead despite having died four movies ago, merely appears in an extended cameo. Jill was always a supporting player, but her screen time and presence has been drastically reduced even further. Hoffman's revenge ploy may drive the film, but he too barely appears. So much was tied up, answered and completed in Saw VI that this film feels merely like a film going through the motions to what should be the finale of the series.Instead of focusing on any of these characters for longer than a few seconds at the time, the film pays attention mostly to Flanery's character and a new detective, Gibson (Chad Donella). Both are described and developed in the quickest and most superfluous of ways (although there could have been a touch more explanation for the importance of Gibson to the storyline), and then help fill in the gaps on the way to the film's conclusion. Neither character or actor is strong enough to carry the movie, and having them help drag the film's running time out just made the film weaker at every interval. Worse yet, the script and story give no reason for the audience to invest any sort of feeling towards either character. Each Saw film hinged on one or an assortment of characters going through some form of game set up by Jigsaw or Hoffman, but there was a grand purpose in the end for why they go through that struggle. Here, the actions of these two characters seem inconsequential. You may hold out hope that there is some reason for their inclusion and participation in the grand finale, but in the end, there is nothing.The deaths are a bit of a mixed bag. On one hand, the film seems to have wisely amped up the victims "working together" motif for almost every trap scene in the film. It makes for a couple of interesting moments, but inevitably still ends with the requisite brutally gory deaths. And a few of the traps are interesting as well – particularly one involving a love triangle, saws, and a public display. And for fans of the series, one notable death involving a rather specific "device" will undoubtedly give cheers, laughter and nausea all at once. But outside of these notable tidbits, the creativity, originality and even the morbid "fun" that come from these traps and deaths seems to have been sucked out of the film. Much like the storyline, it all felt like filler padded out to fill gaps. It was a disappointment to say the least after the go-for-broke style of Saw VI, and only shows that the filmmakers are really starting to show how exhausted their imaginations are in this once gloriously and creative realm. The much hyped 3D does almost nothing for these traps and death scenes either. It is an amusing addition at first, but after getting a character's innards thrown at you for the third time, it starts to get a bit old and silly.But for everything else that is done so wrong, and so haphazard, the filmmakers manage to concoct an incredibly satisfying and wild shock of an ending. On one hand, it is without any doubt, the standout sequence of Saw 3D. Remember the awesome twists this franchise was originally known for? This one takes the cake, and brings the film more in line with the original films than the later ones. The sheer surprise and audacity of it all is just too good, and feels like it belongs in a significantly better film. It practically cheats the audience into sitting through such a horribly disappointing film just so they can get to this one moment of sheer greatness. On the other hand, it stands as an awesome conclusion and finale to the entire franchise. If the ads are correct and this is indeed the final chapter of Saw, then this may just be one of the most enjoyable and entertaining endings ever created. It just may force you to rethink everything that has come before it.I hate to say it, but Saw 3D is the worst and most disappointing film in the franchise. It will leave a rotten taste in your mouth, and just feels rushed, disjointed and convoluted. Saw VI showed a renewed creative vigor that just failed to connect with this film. The ending is the film's only real redeeming moment, and nearly makes up for everything that precedes it. Let's just collectively hope a reboot does not ruin its greatness.5/10.(This review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).

I was lucky enough to have seen this movie yesterday, and I went in with high expectations thinking that Kevin Greutert was behind the camera again. But I was sadly disappointed. Saw 3D was a jumbled mess. Only towards the end did it really pay off. And even then, there were STILL things I didn't like. Such as: Dr. Gordon. Why oh why was he in on it the entire time? That is almost bad enough to nearly ruin parts of the first one for me. I mean really? The writers couldn't have come up with an ending that will satisfy all Saw fans, and not just the Gordonites? Seriously! He saws his foot off in desperation to save his family, he cauterizes his wound, he is taken in by John, who heals his wound, then Gordon just decides to side with him? WHAT?! And the worst part is, they don't even shed some light on that. All they do, is show John take him in, heal his wound, then show him doing all of the things a doctor would need to do for the traps, such as the key behind Michael's eye in Saw II, the stitches put on Trevor and Art in Saw IV, and I think that's it. I HATED that. And there was a scene where Dr. Gordon goes up to John and shows Lynn Denlon from Saw III and states that "she'll be perfect." UGH. And if you haven't guessed by now, the package that Jill drops off at the hospital was for Dr. Gordon. Other problems I had with Saw 3D: the acting, the effects, the characters, the unanswered questions, the fact that Cary Elwes and Tobin Bell were BARELY IN THE MOVIE, and the no montage at the end. I could go on, but I seriously would come off as a hater, which I'm not. The ending, on the other hand, was great. It's something that we've ALL expected and wanted for a very long time. It shouldn't disappoint anyone. Predictable or not, we've ALL wanted it to happen. So don't complain that it was predictable. I have an extremely hard time accepting this as a part of the Saw series, just because of the pure fact that no Saw movie is BAD, except for this one. There are also so many more reasons, but I don't want to continue. Saw 3D is easily the worst Saw. Anyone who disagrees with that is either new to the series, or is a Gordonite. I mean, everyone has their own opinion, but I mean come on. I am extremely disappointed. This was just a big slap to the face for all hardcore Saw fans. And I don't blame Kevin Greutert. I blame the writers and the producers for this. Saw 3D was a mess, but I'm sure Saw VII would have been a good movie.6/10

Finally saw all the 'Saw' films prior to seeing 'Jigsaw' (as part of my wanting to see as many 2017 films as possible this year, during a quieter and less intensive period). Heard a lot about the films, good and bad, but wanted to see them for myself to know what to expect.The films as an overall series are a very mixed bag. While not without its faults, the first film is the best, followed by the second and sixth, while the just straining average fourth film is bang in the middle and the fifth and especially this being the weakest. 'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' couldn't have been a more underwhelming finish to a variable franchise and evidence of the novelty of a great premise being now well and truly dead. All the mistakes seen in the third and fifth films are repeated here and amplified while more is made on the way.'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' is not a completely irredeemable mess. The music score is still eerie and in something of a miracle Tobin Bell cuts a malevolent presence despite Jigsaw being even more underused and misused than in 'Saw V'. Sean Patrick Flanery is also pretty good.Everything else fails. Visually, 'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' is the worst-looking of the series. It's neither elaborate, claustrophobic or atmospheric, instead it's just extreme shoddiness and not only was the 3D very amateurishly constructed and poorly used it was completely pointless. Had a hard time believing that the same director who did so well in the previous instalment in tightening and steadying things and toning down what was done excessively in 'Saw III' and 'Saw V' also directed this film, almost like 'Saw VI' had been forgotten.Performances-wise, only Bell and Flanery are good. Everybody else has to work with thinly sketched characters that are either dull, annoying or both and a script that has replaced 'Saw V's' as the dreariest, most fatigued and contrivance-heavy one of the series. The excessively bland Costas Mandyler and irritating Chad Donella are especially poor.Mystery, suspense and creepiness are also completely missing, thanks to the shoddy production values, the over-reliance on gratuitously gruesome gore and violence, the serious lack of credibility and the severely rushed pacing. Although 'Saw 3D: The Final Chapter' has the highest trap/death count, it's also the most illogically and repetitively plotted 'Saw' entry. There is nothing clever or imaginative about the traps and demises (a huge problem when the whole film was basically a series of them), no surprising or logical twists and the ending has to be one of the most anti-climactic ones in horrordom.Overall, what started as a promising franchise completely petered out in the flattest of ways here. 2/10 Bethany Cox

Yesterday me and my friends decided to have a Saw marathon, we watched saw 1 up to 6 then went to see the new and apparently last instalment aw 3D at the cinema. I went with incredibly high expectations, and in some ways was not disappointed, however there were a few things i was not overly keen on. (spoilers be warned) The negatives - 1. I expected the final game in the saw franchise to focus on someone rather more related to the saw franchise itself. Bobby's character not being known of or mentioned in any previous films ruined it a bit for me, plus the fact i saw him as a completely unlikable character didn't help. In the previous games there was usually a character that i wanted to prevail and survive (Gorden from Saw, Jeff from Saw 3 for example) but this guy didn't do it for me. 2. I so wanted Hoffman to survive (he is my favourite character) and although he isn't shown pyhsically dying in the film, the end clearly shows he has no way of escape. 3.3D! In many cases 3D films can be incredible, just look at avatar for example, however i feel that this was only 3D for the sake of making it 3d, it added nothing to the story and ultimately would have been just as good in 2D. This may just be me but i also thought that the 3D element of the film made it almost too shiny and polished. Saw in 3D just felt too gimmicky when the main focus should have been the fact that it was the last film in the series! The Positives - 1. The traps were pretty fantastic. They were far more imaginative than i expected. I thought Chester Bennington's car trap scene was brutal whilst being clear it was cleverly thought out. I wont go into every trap in detail as it would take too long but there are certainly some imaginative ones in there. 2. Despite Hoffman's demise at the end, he played the bad ass antagonist perfectly. The fact that he chose the old school reverse bear trap on Jill was perfect and throughout the film he remained ruthless. Even at the end when he was chained up, he went straight for the saw, in my eyes again proving he would do anything to survive. 3. The acting, i've heard from a few people that the acting was below par, i on the other hand did not find this to be the case. I thought every character played their role well. 4. The ending, despite predictable to some, was straight up epic. Lawrence Gorden's story was revealed and him ending it with the famous line "Game over!" gave me chills. Overall - In my opinion not one of the Saw films has surpassed the original, due to its pure originality and legitimately shocking twist. Saw 3D didn't have an incredible story, it had a slightly predictable twist but the bottom line is it wrapped the franchise up, answering (most) questions and was a fun film along the way. If you have seen the others and enjoyed them then you can't afford to miss this.

Pros: A good storyline with plenty of twists.Some of the most creative traps to date.I really liked the scenes outside rather than always being set in the dark dingy rooms (excluding flashbacks) like in the other movies.Good ending.Cons: Some of the acting was a little off, Chad Donella (Who played Gibson) did not do a very good job, I sometimes could not tell if he was trying to be sarcastic or if it was just bad acting before including no... he is just a dodgy actor. The scene during the television interview also displayed some terrible acting from the characters behind the camera crew as well as the woman interviewing 'Bobby'.The 3D was disappointing.At times there seemed to be too much going on at once with too many cuts to different locations

OK i was really excited to see how the SAW writers will end this successful horror/mystery franchise. since I'm a huge fan of SAW, i followed every interview made with the cast of this movie before going to c the film, from the writers of this franchise(Patrick Melton-Marcus Dunstan)& director Kevin Greutert to the main actors like Tobin Bell, Costas Mandylor, Cary Elwes and Betsy Russell. i can sum up what they were trying to say(or actually some of them said) in every interview in few words: >>(SAW 3D WILL BE THE BEST MOVIE IN THE SERIES)<<!!!!OMGbesides the disappointment,SAW 3D is a proof that u can top the box office and gain more money by lying to people and fans under the name of "ADVERTISEMENT". Anywayz,i do not blame the MAIN actors/actresses for this BAD movie, i blame the DIRECTOR, the WRITERS and the CASTING DEPARTMENT.REASONS Y SAW 3D IS ONE OF THE WORST IN THE SERIES: +quick explanation for previous films:-in saw 1, the main game was the bathroom, the other game or story was Zipp's game with Gordon's family, in the final twist we c that Zipp is not the bad guy, but the man lying in bathroom floor(jigsaw) is the one.(GREAT TWIST)-in saw 2, the main game was in the house, the other game or story was Eric Matthew's game with jigsaw, Eric was looking for his son(Daniel), in the final twist we c that the game that was running in the house was not live, then we discover that Daniel is in a safe place(in the safe) all the time.(GREAT TWIST)-in saw 3, the main game was jigsaw's game with Dr Lynn, the other game or story was Jeff's game(Lynn's husband), in the final twist we c that jigsaw was playing the game with Amanda, not Lynn, Jeff entered the room and killed jigsaw(the only person who knows where his daughter is).(GREAT TWIST)-in saw 4, the main game was Rigg's game, the other game or story was Hoffman, Eric Mathew and ART's game, and Strahm investigating in jigsaw's case, in the final twist we c that the events of saw 4 is actually running at the same time with the events of saw 3, Hoffman is the new accomplice and locking Strahm in the room.(NOT BAD TWIST)-in saw 5, the main game was the fatal five, the other game or story was Strahm with Hoffman, Strahm is the only man knew about Hoffman and was following him, in the final twist Strahm met Hoffman in a crashing room, pushed him in a glass box ,but we discover that this glass box is actually the only way to escape the crashing room, so Strahm dies.(BAD TWIST AND THE FATAL FIVE GAME IS NOT MUCH RELATED TO STRAHM-Hoffman GAME) bad movie for critics and fans, and got the lowest SAW movie rating.-in saw 6, the main game was William's game, the movie let us think that TARA & BRENT are William's family. the other game or story was Hoffman with Erickson, Perez and Jill. in the final twist we c that Tara and Brent aren't William's family, they are wife and son of a guy that died because of William's bad health insurance policies decisions. Jill put Hoffman in a trap but he escaped from it.(GOOD TWIST,GOOD PLOT AND IT WAS A HUGE IMPROVEMENT FROM SAW 5)NOW HERE COMES SAW 3D: -in saw 3d, huge side of the plot was talking about Bobby (he is a new character to the franchise) he has the main game in this movie, but we c bobby with jigsaw in a flashback only in ONE SCENE. WT*!.. in saw 6 William was a new character, he has the main game, huge part of the plot was talking about him and we c him with jigsaw in A lot of flashbacks scenes. but unfortunately that didn't happen for bobby and jigsaw in SAW 3D. on the other side of the film, we have Hoffman(superman) VS EVERYONE!! how could one person do what Hoffman did in saw 3d all by himself!!!-the actor that played Gibson was really bad, we laughed on his acting at some moments. his role was unnecessary. the writers just needed new detective and police officer, so they just brought this guy(Gibson) and gave him few lines and also put him in a pointless flashback with Hoffman.-Dr Gordon returns for saw 3d!! WOW, i cant believe. well, now i hope that he didn't return. bringing him back ruined the series. they showed us how Gordon used the hot pipe to stop the bleeding, then jigsaw came and told him u r my personal favorite and he became jigsaw's accomplice, WOOOWW, HUGE SURPRISE!! we don't want to c how Gordon have stopped the bleeding, WE WANT TO C HOW GORDON LIVED HIS NORMAL LIFE AND HOW HE BECAME AN ACCOMPLICE. the writers couldn't find any way to explain this to the audience, and couldn't find any way to fit this with the plot, so they decided to just show us what happened to him after he crawled in the hallway and then he become the accomplice.-3D is pointless and cheap.-Everything in the movie looked so FAKE and BAD, the dead bodies, the blood and the acting in some moments.-the writers have used fans theories to end this series, Dr Gordon is being an accomplice is one of them, this series depends on twists, so what is the point of using fans theories for the twists???? where is the twist in this film???-they focused on goriness rather than focusing on twists, no twists in this movie.-the movie was rush. 11 traps in one movie with bad plot.-the movie didn't add anything for the series, and it didn't answer all of the questions.

Saw 3D jumped the shark when:1.) It was made. 2.) In 3D. 3.) The public game. 4.) "Crazier than a sack of cats." 5.) The garage game. 6.) "You are all racists." 7.) Gangster Jigsaw. 8.) "We're breaking up with you." 9.) "Congratulations Dr. Gordon, you survived EVEN THOUGH YOUR GAME WAS TO KILL ADAM." 10.) Billy likes to smash through windows 11.) Hoffman sends out MPEGs everywhere 12.) Hoffman was a killer before Seth Baxter 13.) Rocket Ship go BOOM 14.) Let me throw a key towards a blind man. 15.) Every game is 90 seconds or shorter. 16.) Hoffman hides in body bags. 17.) Hoffman is Michael Myers. 18.) Jill runs like a clichéd horror movie chick 19.) Hoffman's miraculous fast healing stitching 20.) MACHINE GUN TURRET, RAMBO STYLE 21.) Slow motion death Matrix style 22.) Using the reverse bear trap for the THIRD damn time. Run out of ideas? 23.) Gordon is an apprentice YAWN 24.) Billy on wide screen HDTV 25.) Teeth pulling game: numbers on the bottom yea, unrealistic 26.) Promising the return of characters and whaddya know, they don't. 27.) Putting yet another person in the bathroom SIGH 28.) Contributing nothing to the storyThey showed a very poor interest to make a good movie. Saw 3D is a piece of *** and it's doomed to be a failure in any version.

Very overhated. This movie has a lot of problems, there's some moments when it's obvious that it was meant to be 3D, the twist ending is very predictable, there's a couple plot holes, the story is somewhat convoluted, a couple things should of had more screen time and explanation and the blood is pink. That being said this movie has some of the best traps in the entire series, every trap is golden and not just because it's gory but because it's clever there's a trick and puzzle to solve and a lot of the time it has importance to the characters. Also it is one of the most tense in the series and it concludes the series in a satisfying way, it could be better but for a 7 movie series this is a surprisingly well rounded and well done ending. The main protagonist while nowhere near as interesting as 6, 1 and 3 is still much more interesting than most saw protagonists and the detective stuff is fine, it's still very tense and your constantly wondering what's going to happen. This movie has many really interesting ideas and performs it in a well done way, everything comes full circle, all the arcs get finished up and it feels bombastic enough while still sticking to its roots that I think it's a perfectly good ending to the franchise.