It all begins as planet Krypton's world unwinds, as you're packed inside a vessel and assigned, to a place where you'll excel, where folk will come under your spell, the populations of this place are called mankind. You're discovered by a couple and taken in, while growing up, concealing talents that could win, a loss leads you to the arctic, an experience cathartic, but it's Metropolis, where you firmly stick your pin. The Daily Planet is the place you'll ply one trade, Clark Kent assisting Lois on her crusades, your first encounter with Lex Luthor, a somewhat challenging manoeuvre, as you defy Jor-El's mandate, to save the day.

Every once in a while you'll be flipping channels or meandering through the aisles of the local videorama, and you will stumble upon a film that takes you back to your childhood - and the child-like wonder that accompanied it. After 2 decades, as well as numerous (inferior) sequels and remakes, the original Superman is back.Well, okay, maybe this wasn't the ORIGINAL one, but certainly no other version of the legend has had such a lasting impact as this one. Nor has any other telling of the tale been as thorough and ambitious as that put forth by Director Richard Donner and Story writer Mario Puzo. Add to that the utterly inspired (and inspiring) score by John Williams, and you have a dose of that good old movie magic. Even the opening credits manage to raise your adrenaline levels, as the Superman symbol soars through space across the screen and Williams' opening theme perfectly builds to a masterful crescendo. It will make you want to stand up from your couch and soar out of the nearest window, though I don't recommend it if you live on anything above the first floor.The film begins on Superman's home world of Krypton, a dazzling planet dotted by crystalline cities which, combined again with William's incredible theme music, seem to present an image of heaven itself. A super-race of highly advanced beings, the Kryptonians' only weakness is their pride, as the infant Superman's father, Jor-el points out. It is that pride that leads them to ignore Jor-el's warnings that the planet is doomed by an impending supernova. In a last ditch effort to save his son, as well as some remnant of his race, he sends his infant son Kal-el to the planet Earth in a deep space probe. Marlon Brando, in the role of Jor-el, gives one of his best performances. His role is the stuff of Hollywood legend, since he was paid 4 million dollars for his role of about 10 minutes, but despite his exorbitant fee and minimal screen time, his performance is no less worthy.The probe crashes in a farmer's field in the early 1950's, to be discovered by the Kents, with Glen Ford in the role of Pa Kent. Though he seems to have even less screen time than Brando, his role as the young Superman's moral example is no less pivotal to the story. Superman's childhood and most of his teen years are completely skipped over, however, Jeff East gives an excellent portrayal of the teen Clark Kent, who is only beginning to discover the real extent of his powers. Most of the supporting cast equally distinguish themselves. Gene Hackman creates a charming and amusing villain in Lex Luthor, and while Margot Kidder's portrayal of Lois Lane is a bit forced and grating at times, she still shines with a kind of charm, and it is always fun to watch her slip from the tough-as-nails reporter to the flustered schoolgirl every time the Man of Steel hits the scene. If you still don't like her performance, watch the "Lois Lane screen tests" in the special features section of the DVD, which includes tryouts by various prominent actresses of the day. After watching them, I think you'll agree that the filmmakers made the right casting choice.But of course, the person we will remember the most is Christopher Reeve as Superman, and this is the way he should be remembered. It was certainly his greatest role, and although he overplayed the nerdy and fumbling Clark Kent, and his Superman sometimes pauses to deliver silly platitudes, he does so with an air of wry amusement. He may act like a goody two-shoes, but mostly he just seems to be having a good time showing off, and damn it, why shouldn't he? He's Superman, after all. If I could fly, you could damn well bet I'd be showing off too. This is confirmed in a brief but enjoyable restored scene in which, after saving Lois Lane and the President, as well as foiling several crimes, Superman flies back to his Fortress of Solitude to discuss it with his "Father", or rather, the persona of Jor-el which has been preserved in memory crystals and sent to earth with the infant Kal-el, so that he could benefit from Jor-el's knowledge and wisdom. He admonishes his son that, while it is natural to enjoy being able to show off his powers, he must learn to be humble and keep his vanity in check.It is surprising how little moments of restored footage such as this one seem to breathe much more life into the characters, giving them a depth not seen in their previous cinematic incarnation. And while the film is a tale of the power of good, it is ultimately a tribute to the power of love. It is love that makes Superman more vulnerable than even kryptonite, love that makes him betray his Kryptonian father's admonition to "never interfere with human history", and love that makes him truly human. Though it is nearly an hour into the film before Superman finally makes his first heroic and world-stunning appearance, it is well worth the wait. The action gets more and more exciting, rivaling anything that today's action counterparts, like "The Mummy Returns" can dish out. The effects, though antiquated by today's overblown CGI standards, are still impressive and manage to maintain their looks and grace in their old age. As Lex Luthor launches a diabolical plan involving hijacked twin nuclear missiles, the subsequent chase, followed by Superman's efforts to save an Earthquake-ravaged California, are breathtaking even by today's standards.Like the superhero of title, the film itself is not without its weaknesses. In trying to keep in touch with its vintage comic book roots, it can be a tad cornball at times, and occasionally gets bogged down by what I call the "golly gee-whiz" factor. Yet it does so in a very tongue-in-cheek manner, retaining enough adult sophistication and genuine drama to keep it from lapsing into a mere kiddy show or a parody of the source material. In fact, the film has several surprisingly mature nuances. If, like me, you hadn't seen this film since you were a kid, then you will be in a much better position to fully enjoy the subtleties of the film now. (i.e, Lois Lane, in her rooftop interview of Superman asks "How big are you . . . er, I mean . .. how TALL are you". I obviously missed that as a kid, because it had me rolling with laughter this time around. But despite a few loose threads in the cape and tights, The Man of Steel remains quite intact and appropriately larger than life. It is therefore fitting that this film has been re-mastered and re-released in collector's two-sided DVD format. The sound and picture quality are excellent, wiping away the tarnish of age and making the film shine again. Some of the many features include the aforementioned restored footage (about 10-15 minutes worth), a few additional deleted scenes (which, I thought, should have been restored into the film as well), commentary by director Richard Donner, the Lois Lane screen tests, specials on the making and origins of the film, and a music-only track (well worth the price of the DVD alone).If you haven't seen this movie since you were a kid, and you want to feel like a kid again, rent it now. If you've never seen it at all, then the release of this DVD has taken away your last excuse. You will believe a man can fly.

This is, for me, the best of all the Superman films. It takes into account the mythos of the most famous superhero ever. The beginning is so incredible. I already knew the story (by the way, I'm not a fan boy, just encountered it along the way). I think that the Superman oeuvre is the best plotted out of all these heroes' stories. We get to see the struggles of the father, Jor-el, dealing with the short-sightedness of the civic leaders. We get set up for a future with the three malcontents who are out there somewhere. We get the storied life of Clark Kent/Superman as a kid and the struggles he faced. We get an explanation for the Fortress of Solitude. And finally, there is an introduction to Lex Luther, the mastermind, who will make Superman's life a continuous battle. Clark has left home and seems to have some real insights. He is prepared. Now the story and future stories will move along. Oh, we will miss the kind and accomplished Christopher Reeve for this and other roles.

The Superman movies were favourites of my childhood, but I don't remember them as well as many others. I was never that into superheroes.Therefore I came to "Superman" with some reluctance, which turned out to be unnecessary. "Superman" still stands up as a pretty fantastic movie, and could probably still be used as a template for the modern superhero movie... not that I've really seen any of those.It's got decent characters, a decent story, and the effects are still impressive enough. What really sets it apart, though, is the actual chemistry between Reeve and Kidder, and the wit in the screenplay.

Superman may be corny and cheesy to some people, but for those who grew up with it it is as original and as exciting as it was 30+ years ago. The spectacle of the film is terrific, the cinematography is wonderful and the special effects are dazzling. In terms of effective scenes, the scenes with Clark and Lois are cute and don't take up too much of the film or harm it in any way, while the confrontation between him and Lex Luthor is suitably bright and breezy and the opening is wonderfully elegiac. The score's main theme is iconic and just superb, John Williams has done some wonderful scores before, this score is no exception. The direction is innovative and the script is sophisticated enough. I also much enjoyed the acting. Christopher Reeve is perfectly cast as Clark/Superman while Gene Hackman is superb as the calculating yet comic Lex Luthor. Overall, just terrific fun! 10/10 Bethany Cox

Superman: The Movie (1978) is the Original film and the only that is the best origin story of a Superman who changes himself into an ultimate superhero. Christopher Reeve is and always will be the only SUPERMAN! No one could play Clark Kent/Superman like Christopher Reeve, the film is still instantiate classic till it's day.If anyone could be Superman. It is Christopher Reeve, he fits the part perfectly as the shy yet great reporter Clark Kent, Kal-El last son of Krypton, and Superman, Earths savior from the forces of evil. It is one of my personal favorite Superman movies.Superman is a world known icon and is permanently set in stone as the best Superhero of all time. Though, the only Superman movies I enjoyed are the first three Superman movies that had Christopher Reeve in it! This is the best superhero of the 70's before Marvel and DC start making superhero movies. The origin story of a man who can fly, is terrific, believable and awesome. Marlon Brando's role was one of his best, the most films that become memorable for me are The Godfather (1972), Apocalypse Now (1979) and this film Superman, he completed 1.year earlier this film, before he started filming Apocalypse Now (1979). What else can I say, that was already told? I love this film! I grew up with this film, this is the real original film which has a heart! Man of Steel (2013) reboot to Superman (1978) does not have a heart! This is the real film! The special effects are great, the CGI are barely in it, they aren't. The plot and the story are terrific. The cast is wonderful and acts believable. Superman and Christopher Reeve are the most beloved iconic heroes till it's day. For me Superman will always be Christopher Reeve no one else! I love Smallville (TV Series 2001-2011) and Tom Welling was playing young Clark Kent. Tom Welling will be Clark Kent for me, but Christopher Reeve will be Superman. Reeve also appeared in Season 2 and 3 as special guest in Smallvile which I love that so much. It is sad That Christopher Reeve died in October 10, 2004. John Williams theme score is the best score done for the character. I hear it and it makes me feel so uplifted and I feel like I can do anything. Great cast, beautiful score, and an Epic feeling that is lacking from movies in today's age. It is my favorite superhero film. Superman and his portrayal by Christopher Reeve is a masterpiece and is timeless . Incredible after all this time, this film still holds its own against more recent superhero films and all the CGI that goes with it. Richard Donner's work is a true homage to this classic hero that we have all come to love. I still get shivers when I hear the soundtrack as well. This is a classic of the comic book hero genre, and in most respects the one that really set the standard for all comic book hero films that follow it. The special effects, sets, haircuts and wardrobe may all look dated, but Superman: The Movie remains among the most beloved films of the 1970s. Director Richard Donner brings the comic book hero to life in Christopher Reeve, who admirably adapts from the bumbling Clark Kent to the ultimate caped crusader. The entire cast is brilliant in its supporting roles. Gene Hackman gives a great performance as the unapologetically wicked Lex Luthor. And Margot Kidder delivers a portrait of a strong, ambitious Lois Lane at a time when women were starting to break the glass ceiling. But it is Donner's dedication to the spirit and style of the original Superman's comic book roots, as well as to inject a heavy dose of humor, that make Superman: The Movie a classic. In some ways, it has still not been surpassed, even by the CGI effects and faster-paced action of today's superhero movies.The special effects and CGI look great and they don't suck. This film has a heart and it does not suck and is not bad. Marlon Brando was wonderful a touching movement performance as Jor-El, Clark's father. Incredible after all this time, this film still holds its own against more recent superhero films and all the CGI that goes with it. Richard Donner's work is a true homage to this classic hero that we have all come to love. I still get shivers when I hear the soundtrack as well. A box-office smash, an Academy Award winner* and a fan favorite since it first flew into theaters in December 1978, Superman: The Movie assembles a cast and creative contingent as only a big movie can. At its heart (just as in three sequels) is Christopher Reeve's intelligent, affectionate portrayal of a most human Man of Steel. Watching Superman again isn't just like being a kid again. It's better. The movie's legacy soared even higher when director Richard Donner revisited this beloved adventure 22 years later and integrated eight minutes into the film. Christopher Reeve, Marlon Brando (Jor-El), Gene Hackman (Luthor) and Margot Kidder (Lois Lane) give indelible performances that fuel the film's aura of legend. Superman (also known as Superman: The Movie) is a 1978 superhero film directed by Richard Donner. It is based on the DC Comics character of the same name and stars Marlon Brando, Gene Hackman, Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Glenn Ford, Phyllis Thaxter, Jackie Cooper, Trevor Howard, Marc McClure, Terence Stamp, Valerie Perrine, and Ned Beatty.I love this film and is the best superhero classic film ever made!!!! 10/10 it is my personal favorite Superman movie.

I still find it amazing that for over forty years, we've seen countless adaptations and (mis)interpretations of Superman, and yet not one of them can even begin to compare to this masterpiece. Perhaps one day some writers and directors will get together and realize how to recreate this brand of magic. Until then, we will always have Donner's films to fill that role.

"Superman: The Movie" has, by far, the worst plot ever put on film. No movie ever made has a plot that depends so much on stupidity as the plot of Superman. Not even movies about stupidity (e.g., Dumber And Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd) can top it in that category.But let's take a look at the plot: Lex Luthor buys cheap mid-western real state with the intention of sending a nuclear missile to San Andreas fault, thus sinking the whole west coast, which would cause his cheap real state to become the new west coast, thus making him rich. Never mind the fact that the plan is neither physically possible nor economically viable, those are the least of this movie's problems. The problems start when, luckily for Luthor, the US Army, who are depicted as the most incompetent group of buffoons in the history of cinema, decide to launch 2 nuclear missiles within US territory, with enough fuel to reach both coasts and no failsafes whatsoever. They literally just plan to hurl the missiles up into the air and hope for the best because if anything goes wrong, they're screwed. The missiles are going to be transported from the base where they are stored to the launching base (where no one will ever check if anything went wrong) by a group of soldiers so dumb and horny they'll leave their post in unison at the sight of a scantily-clad woman lying in the pavement ahead of them.It's bad enough that the only real difference between Luthor's plan to hijack the missiles and a Coyote's plan to capture the Road Runner is the number of empty Acme boxes lying around afterwards. It's bad enough that the plan actually works, thanks to the spectacular incompetence of the US Army. It's bad enough that Otis (Luthor's henchman) demonstrates that he is the stupidest living being ever put on film by screwing up a task a 6-year-old child would've done correctly. But what makes this sequence completely unbearable is the fact that Otis' screw up is going to play such an important part in the plot later on. Quite literally, Otis' braindead screw up is the one and only reason Superman manages to defeat Luthor.Then Luthor realizes that Superman could still foil his plans so he decides to get rid of him, and using reasoning that Uwe Boll would've been ashamed to put on film, he "deduces", out of the blue, the existence and effects of Kryptonite. Then he lures Superman into his lair (in the sewers) so he can kill him. At this point, Superman is completely clueless regarding the missiles and Luthor's plan. If Luthor has kept his mouth shut, he would've won. But just to prove that this movie is nothing but a bad James Bond movie written by Ed Wood, and that Luthor is nothing more than a poor man's Goldfinger, he tells Superman everything about his plan, including how to stop it if he desires to do so. Then he puts the Kryptonite necklace on Superman, pushes him into a pool, and continues his James Bond-villain impersonation by conveniently walking away for no readily apparent reason, hoping that Superman is nice enough to die unsupervised and stupid enough not no realize that all he has to do is to bend over and let the necklace slip from his neck. All Luthor had to do was to wait two minutes for Superman to drown. If he was in a hurry, he could've helped him. But no, he walks away.So Superman is in the pool, a Kryptonite necklace slowly draining away his powers and even his very life. This is the first time in the whole movie that Superman cannot simply muscle his way out of a problem. So what does he do? Does he demonstrate that being a hero is about the heart, not the muscles? Does he demonstrate that a hero might be down, but he's never out? Does he demonstrate that a true hero will always find a way to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat no matter what the odds are? No, that would be SuperGIRL. What Superman demonstrates is that he's absolutely worthless without his muscles. So how does he get out of there? Well, it turns out that Otis' screw up in programming the missile has conveniently sent it to the town where the grandparents of Luthor's henchwoman live. And she saves Superman so he can save her grandparents, in what is effectively the worst "plot twist" in the history of cinema.And when you thought things couldn't get any stupider, they do. Superman stops the first missile, but not the second one, which strikes San Andreas fault and causes a huge earthquake. Several really crappy FX scenes later (including one where Superman lifts a whole mountain range which, incredibly enough, stops the earthquake instead of causing a bigger one) Lois Lane dies. So (and prepare your brain cells for this one) Superman flies around the Earth, reversing Earth's rotation, and thus reversing time, magically undoing all the stuff that had just happened. He literally just hits the "undo" button and makes all the bad things go away.If a lesser superhero, let alone a female one, had tried to get away with this kind of garbage it would've instantly won a Razzie for worst screenplay of the century.

It remains one of the most fascinating slices of my childhood. The fascination is the same. The same the emotion. And the believe than Christopher Reeves remains the best Superman. Sure, after decades, it could be seen as naive. But its freshness is yhe same. Like the noble moral message.

This is it ladies and gents...my 200th review. I thought long and hard about what I would dedicate my 200th review to...would it be something new and flashy, a movie that I knew was a knockout, something more personal to me?? One of my faves perhaps?? I finally decided on this film. Since I was a little boy I have loved Superman. Even now many years later I am still fascinated by the character, I mean he has withstood 6 decades of changes and world upheaval and still one of the best selling heroes of our time. Without further ado let's talk about Richard Donner's big screen epic Superman: The Movie. Thanks for reading my reviews!! Superman: The Movie MUST be judged not by today's standards but by the standards set for films of the late seventies/early eighties. That's not to say that it doesn't stand up for itself even almost 3 decades later but it's true brilliance may be lost if you don't remember when and where it was made. Brilliant Director Richard Donner (Lethal Weapon series, The Goonies, and stocks of brilliant TV series) I think really knows what the audience wants out of characters. I'm sure he tread on thin ice when it came to bringing the infamous Man of Steel to the big screen having only comics and TV and radio before him to base it on. Donner took everything Superman stood for, truth, justice, American Way, fighting evil, his estrangement from his home planet, his love for Lois Lane and put it all into this film.Nothing is left out of Superman, we have the origins including an in depth look into Krypton (which at the time would have been a first.) We see Kal-El's parents and their conflicts, we are given a small introduction to Clark Kent's youth and his coming of age and then everything else we know and love about the Superman legend. Everything from "The Phantom Zone" to Lois and Clark falling in love. I always thought the casting for Superman was it's one downfall but after watching the film again I really see that it wasn't such an error in judgment.The late and incredible Christopher Reeve truly was built for Superman. He embodied the character and created two completely different people to the point where you believed a pair of glasses and a different part in the hair was the perfect alter ego. His Clark Kent was goofy but pure and honest but completely different from the strength and character of Superman. His Superman was tall, larger than life, strong, honest, too good to be true. He was perfect and he looked both parts perfectly too and he will forever be known....in my books...as The Superman of film. Margot Kidder pretty much had Lois Lane nailed. I always thought she was a little old for the role and wasn't sure she looked the part but the personality was perfect, strong, forceful, pig headed, leap before you look kinda gal. And the chemistry with Reeve's Superman was very good. They established a fast but very bonding romance between the two characters. The supporting cast was also well done...Jackie Cooper was great as Perry White, Marc McClure was perfectly cast as the young, naive Jimmy Olsen, and Marlon Brando was an awesome screen presence for Jor-El and considering the billing he got for his brief role it's good that he had that pull. Gene Hackman is a brilliant actor, I've loved him in many roles...he was not right for Lex Luthor or perhaps even his character wasn't written right. Although diabolical and evil it was done in a comedic way right down to the doofus sidekick which was more cartoonish than it was big budget film. You just didn't truly feel the tension and arch rivalry between Reeve and Hackman's characters. The only other beef I can find with Superman is the overlooking of some key elements of reality. Yes I know Superman must leave reality at the door and that's easy to do with such a brilliant beautifully done Epic but the whole concept of Superman reversing time by making the earth spin backwards, or turning into Superman and having his "human" clothes literally vanish into thin air...these are things that the writers should have looked more closely into. But I think they focused so much of their time on making sure other elements were in place that they let these things slide and that's okay but it's such a minor thing but still with such perfection in other areas they stand out.Special effects like this had never been seen before and they are still stunning. Watching Superman fly and the explosions and earthquake and his miracle powers are just wonderful and will forever be in the mind of movie goers. This is such a brilliant film and put a stamp on the genre of superheroes that every other film will try to live up to. For the record I am thrilled and excited about the upcoming Bryan Singer Superman film, I think he will take everything that was great about this original and utilize it to continue on the epic. Bravo to him!! Superman: The Movie also had and still has one of the most haunting, beautiful and stunning scores ever created. The music became his anthem no matter where Superman is. This is one of the best films ever, and will always be a classic especially to me!! 9/10

Before the Man of Steel hit the big screen back in the seventies, courtesy of Producer Illya Salkind, Director Richard Donner, and Warner Brothers, we were assured that we would believe a man could fly.  I am not one to doubt studio promotions, but just like everybody else I was game to find out if it was so.  Did I come out of Superman: The Movie believing that indeed the son of Jor-el also known as Kal-el also known as Superman also known as Clark Kent could take to the airways without benefit of plane, hot air balloon, rocket pack, or zeppelin?   Nahhh...of course not, but Christopher Reeve looked a lot better faking it then any of his predecessors such as George Reeve and Kirk Alyn.   The truth is that Superman: The Movie has a whole lot going for it besides the flight abilities of Reeve.  It also has a multitude of things that work against it.Unless you're some kind of a vampire who has been locked away in a casket for the past hundred years or so, you pretty much know the story.  The Planet Krypton which has a Red Sun was spinning around out there in the far reaches of space somewhere.  Jor-el (Marlon Brando) had come to the conclusion that Krypton was going to explode wiping out all Kryptonians. Unable to convince anyone else of his findings, and not having a spaceship available that would carry him and Mrs. Kal-el (Susannah York), he packed up his only begotten son Kal-el along with his pampers and blasted him off towards Earth.  Since Earth has a yellow sun, this would somehow increase the density of Kal-el, giving him super powers far beyond anybody but the publishers of DC comics could ever imagine.  After being adopted by a farm couple known as Ma and Pa Kent (Phyllis Thaxter & Glenn Ford), Kal-el became young Clark Kent.  Later in life he took a job as an ace reporter at the Daily Planet ran by Editor Perry White (Jackie Cooper), which he used as a secret identity until he was needed to get down and get funky in his identity of Superman, protector of truth, justice and the American way.   It was at the Daily Planet that he met the love of his life, Ace Reporter Lois Lane (Margot Kidder).  Lois had the hots for Superman too as long as he was Superman and not Clark Kent.  When he was Clark, Lois wouldn't be caught dead in a Honeymoon Suite at Niagara Falls with him.  But that's another story, as you well know.Before dispensing with the well known back story, Superman opens with a sequence where three criminals are banished into The Phantom Zone in order to set up Superman II.  You just have to give it props for that instead of waiting until just before the credits role to tack on the obligatory sequel setting end as most film makers have a penchant for doing.  Of course it helps when you know for sure there's going to be a number 2 before your number one makes it onto the big screen.   Marlon Brando is okay as Jor-el but I can never seem to shake the feeling that I'm watching Brando in a white wig our forefathers would themselves have been proud to wear, and his delivery amounts to giving some kind of lecture to the Continental Congress. Krypton itself is not at all like one would imagine having read the comics, as it is displayed here as some kind of eternal homage to cubic zirconium.  It's pretty to look at but has no substance.This movie version doesn't spend much time with Clark as a boy, but they are some of the best moments in the film in spite of the fact that Jeff East who plays young Clark had his dialog dubbed by Reeve.   Other than near the end of the film, it's the only time the film shows some real heart regarding Superman or anyone else in it.  One almost hated to see Superman/Clark grow up.In the comics that I grew up with in the sixties, Clark was always portrayed to be somewhat of a coward by Superman, in order to help protect his secret identity.  In Superman: The Movie, Reeve's Clark is not only a "girly man" but is pretty much a bumbling idiot.  While it strikes much more of a contrast between Clark and Superman, it is overplayed and overdone to the point that it ends up making us dread the moments when Superman does become Clark.  That being said, when Reeve does put on his cape and takes flight, his portrayal as Superman is without peer.I don't have much of a problem with Margot Kidder's portrayal of Lois Lane as it seems to be right on the mark as the character was written for her. The problem is not with her characterization but not for one minute do we believe in Superman's sudden infatuation with her or why he is even attracted to her.  The only concern Lois seems to have is where is her next big story coming from and how long it is till her next cigarette.  She seems to be the epitome of a liberated woman, so the fact that she would suddenly go ga-ga over Superman doesn't quite hold water even if he does take time out to rescue her early in the picture, and later give her flying lessons. The relationship is never developed in a way that makes any sense at all.Gene Hackman is way over the top also as Lex Luthor but at least he does it with a bit of style and fun.  Not so Ned Beatty who plays his henchman Otis. Otis is supposed to be comic relief, but the only relief you'll get is if you pop a couple of antacids in order to be able to stomach the character. We do not for one minute believe that Lex Luther would keep a total dunce such as Otis around for any reason, as there would just have to be less excruciatingly painful criminals in Metropolis willing to run errands for him.  The character of Otis is more than just an annoyance as every scene he is in drags the story down to a mediocre level.  Valerie Perrine's Miss Teschmacher is kind of a dumb bulb also, but her character is at least kept in check to the point where she is even likeable.  And alas, just as most of the characters are in this film, Perry White is played by Jackie Cooper as a simple minded goof ball.What is good about Superman are the flying sequences.  As a matter of fact when Superman is zooming around performing various rescues ranging from a cat to a president and capturing criminals, the film as a whole takes flight.  The special effect all around are well done, especially Superman's rescue of Lois from a helicopter, and later as he races around California to repair the damage being done during an Earthquake.  The scenes where he takes to the sky with Lois for a romantic interlude are almost lyrical.
John Williams give us another one of his no holds bar musical scores.  Its well done for this kind of film, and apparently the producers and director thought so too as it plays over top of some of the longest running opening and closing film credits known to man.  In other words, when the film starts you'll have plenty of time to still pop another batch of popcorn, run to the bathroom and make it back to your recliner before we come close to reaching the planet Krypton.Besides Otis, the biggest problem with Superman: The Movie comes near the end.  In order to resolve a plot situation which if left as it was would have caused major problems for the subsequent sequel, the writer, director or somebody has Superman perform a stunt that reeks of lazy film making.  It opens a plot hole as wide and as deep as the Grand Canyon.  Usually in a film based on a comic book character, one can overlook such devices, but this one is so glaring and obvious in its ineptitude that it one will be forced to mumble a certain word pertaining to bull droppings.  I haven't felt this cheated since my first girlfriend dumped me for another guy.Superman: The Movie is highly watchable in many aspects.  With a little more thought and consideration in how to bring the classic characters to the screen, it could have been one of the great comic book films of all time. Unfortunately, when you can only make me think of what might have been or could have been, I have no choice but to give you my grade which for Superman: The Movie is a C+.

This is my 301st review on IMDb, so I'm going to make this short, simple, and super:"You'll believe a man can fly!" - the tagline for "Superman"He stood for "truth, justice, and the American way." Ahh, to just think that this is the movie that started it all, ladies and gentlemen. Carefully adapted from the popular DC Comics character created by Joe Shuster and Jerry Siegel, Richard Donner's 1978 epic has stood the test of time to become the supreme superhero film. Alongside Tim Burton ("Batman") and Sam Raimi ("Spider-Man"), Donner earned his place in cinematic history by becoming the first director to make a perfect superhero film. Superman is the most recognizable comic book superhero in history, and when Clark Kent (the late, great Christopher Reeve) rips open his shirt to reveal that symbolic "S" an hour and 11 minutes into the film, you know that it's one of the greatest cinematic moments. This epic defined the superhero film, and in the 27 years since its release, every subsequent comic book superhero movie is forever indebted to "Superman." The plot (and what a plot) runs complete throughout its epic 154 minutes and believe me, there's not a single wasted moment in the film's entire running length. Of course, Clark Kent is sent from his dying home world of Krypton by his father Jor-El (the late Marlon Brando), grows up and works at the Daily Planet, falls in love with Lois Lane (Margot Kidder), and must foil the diabolical plans of Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman). Put simply, there will never be another movie like "Superman," and who can forget those *cosmic* credits, the aforementioned "S" scene, the Superman and Lois date over New York City and later above the clouds, and that one, definitive climax when Superman lets out a painful cry that reveals that one glint of humanity that he's earned from his time on earth. Reeve will forever be linked to the role that really made people believe he was a super man, even when he wasn't wearing the blues, reds, and yellows, and was instead confined to the prison that's called a wheelchair. But we know that he's up there, flying high with the Almighty and proving to us all that he is who we believed he was. The recent news that Bryan Singer ("X-Men") is directing a new Superman is not exactly getting me giddy, considering the low standards of today's film-making and the onslaught of CGI effects that dominate many Hollywood action movies these days. I love "Superman" and even today, I'm still touched by its magic, and deeply saddened by the real-life tragedies that have followed it.A perfect, "super" 10/10.

The mighty man Superman(1978), is an above average outing based on screen comic book by Jerry Siegel and Jose Shuster and attractive script by notorious writers as Mario Puzo , David Newman , Leslie Newman and Robert Benton . This breathtaking legend begins with the fateful planet Krypton . Surviving the destruction of the planet , there a baby , Kal-El , lives in an isolated Kryptonian community about to destroyed , , that's why he is sent by his father Jor-El (Marlon Brando) to live among mankind on Earth . As the alien orphan is sent from his dying planet to Earth , where he's cared by his adopted parents (Glenn Ford, Phyllis Thaxter) , as he grows up to become his adoptive home's first and greatest superhero . Kent (Jeff East) discovers that he was born with extraordinary powers and abilities beyond imagination . Nowadays, living in Metropolis , Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) takes up a job as a reporter for the Daily Planet and starts to fall head over heals for fellow reporter Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) .You'll believe a man can fly. The movie that makes a legend come to life.Big budget blockbuster in which Christopher Reeve made an excellent movie debut and launched his career with the help of Kryptonite . Thrilling first Superman outing with spectacular frames , action-packed, impressive feats , usual romance , hilarious set pieces and overwhelming entertainment . Exciting and sophisticated story of a young hero , Superman , with superpowers , loosely based on the comic book series , which should delight the kiddies and occassionaly tickle the adults . Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder are great to look at , and much better than other movies . An amusing and over-the-top installment in which Superman : Christopher Reeve takes on a villainous entrepreneur called Lex Luthor , the always magnificent Gene Hackman , along with his henchmen , botcher Nead Beatty and beautiful Valerie Perrine . It results in some overwhelming and fun scenes in which Superman battles incredible forces . Along the way , Superman romances his flame Lois Lane : Margot Kidder as main role . Considered to be the most attractive and the best of the four Superman/Reeve main entries. As Reeve deserves credit for remaining true to role through four movies . The film is fast-moving , agreeable and funny , including charming action scenes, apart from the expendable romantic interludes when Superman falls for Louis Lane , being an enjoyable piece of first-class entertainment . Fun and well-intentioned screenplay with a promising satiric style that is uneven developed through the movie, though providing a good sprinkly of sympathetic lines. The film contains thrills , abundant special effects, and noisy action that benefits from a wickest sense of humour and a joyous zing . However , traditional style special effects are old quality and it appears that someone may have walked off with parts of the script . Fine cast with Christopher Reeve who is pretty good and excels in his sympathy and attractivenes . As well as Gene Hackman in his usual role as ironical Lex Luthor , accompanied by his hoodlum Ned Beatty who's a true showman playing a roguish crook at his best. There are enough traditional as well as modern digital effects to satisfy the most avid Science Fiction and Fantasy fans . Along with three main starring : Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman , Margot Kidder , there are other secondaries delivering brief interpretations, such as : Marlon Brando , Maria Schell , Susannah York , Valerie Perrine , Terence Stamp , Glenn Ford , Phyllis Thaxter , Marc McClure , Terence Stamp , Sarah Douglas , Harry Andrews and several others . Sparkling technicolor cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth lends the top-dressing to the proceedings . And, of course, catching soundtrack by the great and prolific composer John Williams, including the classic leitmotif . This better than average picture was competently directed by Richard Donner, giving a correct approach , outstanding Reeve's characterization as Superman .This high-flying series about Superman produced by Alexander, Yla Salkind are as follows : Superman 1978 by Richard Donner with Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Gene Hackman, Ned Beatty, Jackie Cooper, Trevor Howard , Marlon Brando, Terence Stamp, Maria Schell, Marc McClure . Superman 2 , 1980, by Richard Lester with Reeve, Kidder, Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas . Superman III by Richard Lester with Reeve, Richard Pryor , Annie Ross , Pamela Stephenson , Margot Kidder , Gene Hackman , Annette O'Toole . And downright and dull third outing , deemed to be an overwrought , overlong and embarrassing sequel : ¨Superman 4 The Quest for peace¨ 1987 by Sidney J Furie with Jackie Cooper , Marc McClure , Jon Cryer , Sam Wanamaker, Mark Pillow , Mariel Hemingway . And in similar style Supergirl 1984 by Jeannot Szwarc with Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter Cook, Mia Farrow.

Before watching Superman, I was prepared to allow for less-than-impressive special effects and funny hairdos, since it was released in 1978. I was going to judge the effects based on effects from films contemporary with Superman, not modern films, and maybe get some campy fun out of some of them. I'm willing to forgive the silly glowing white tinfoil suits everyone on Krypton wears, because that was a pretty common way for the future and futuristic things to be portrayed. I remember believing that we would all be traveling via jet packs and flying cars by now. I got a kick out of the flying disc that captured General Zod (Terrance Stamp) and his cohorts to send them to their punishments, even though it looks really silly (as a kid, it really freaked me out). On the positive side for special effects, I must say that the film does a pretty convincing job with Superman's flying, especially for the time.But, special effects and aging aside, I was shocked at how utterly and completely boring the movie was. Booooooooooorrrring. The first 45 minutes, focusing on the destruction of Krypton, baby Kal's trip to Earth, Clark Kent as a teenager in Smallville (who doesn't look anything like the man he'll grow up to become), the death of Pa Kent, and Clark's time in the Fortress of Solitude were the most boring 45 minutes of a comic book movie I've ever seen. It literally put me to sleep. I couldn't believe how much it all sucked. To make things worse, scenes were added to this snooze-fest for the DVD release, making it all longer than the original.I'm assuming they spent so much time indulging in Superman's origin to A) make the movie feel more epic, and B) to get Marlon Brando (who plays Jor-El) more screen time. I hung in through this because I knew it got better. Then the Smallville stuff happened, which was beyond lame. You'd think the parts where Clark showed his powers would at least be cool, but it only made things worse. I've never seen a more gay run than the one teenage Clark exhibits when racing alongside a train. Seriously, he looked like a marionette (which, you will note, is a much gayer word than puppet).But, I persevered (after a night's sleep), and continued watching, knowing that the movie would get better once it headed to Metropolis. Of course, when the first third of a movie is terrible, it's already not a good movie. But, I had to see it through, if for no other reason that my home city, Calgary, doubles as Metropolis, and its always fun to see your own city on film (well, unless your own city is Los Angeles or New York, then its old hat). And you know what? The film did get better when it shifted to Metropolis, and the reason why can be summarised in two words: Christopher Reeve.Christopher Reeve's portrayal of the bumbling Clark Kent, juxtaposed with the confident and heroic Superman, is spot-on. Perhaps the best portrayal of a comic book character ever. It's pretty fun the first time you see each side of Supes portrayed on screen, and Reeve manages to maintain his solid performance throughout. The problem is that almost everything that surrounds his performance sucks. Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor is terrible, made even worse by his bumbling sidekick played by Ned Beatty. Margot Kidder is fine as Lois Lane, but nothing special. She has a nice scene when she meets Superman at her apartment, after he saved her life, but it's completely ruined by her god-AWFUL mental poetry while flying with Superman. Seriously, it sounded like it was written by a seven year old girl.Skip to the big exciting climax, which is one of my favourite bad movie moments of all-time. Lex Luthor is successful in detonating a nuclear missile along the San Andreas faultline, leading to an earthquake that should swallow up the entire west coast. Superman fights to stop it, but fails to prevent Lois Lane's death from being swallowed and crushed by the torn-apart Earth. Here's the best part: mourning the loss of Lois, Supes does the only thing he can-- he flies around the Earth so fast that it reverses the rotation of the planet. Forget whether or not such a thing is even within Superman's capabilities, I'll allow that it is. What's awesome about this (and by "awesome", I mean "awesomely horrible") is that reversing the Earth's rotation causes time to move backward. BWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA! Why the screenwriters (amongst whom is The Godfather scribe Mario Puzo) thought this would lead to time travel, instead of say, causing everything on Earth that is not apart of the ground to fly off into space, is beyond me. And even if you do except the time travel, why on Earth would Superman not travel back in time long enough to prevent the nuclear bomb to go off? He only travels back far enough to prevent Lois' death, says hi to her, then leaves her and Jimmy Olson in the desert with a car with no gas (which makes you think that he thought her initial death was just too quick-- I guess he prefers starvation and dehydration). How did this even save Lois? Wouldn't the earthquake swallow her up again once Superman left? The movie then ends with Superman bringing Luthor and Beatty to prison, without ever showing how Superman captured them, because, really, who wants to see a guy defeat his archnemesis in action movies anyway? These things are best left to the imagination. I was shocked and dumb-founded at how overwhelmingly bad this movie was, absolutely terrible. I'd rather watch Batman & Robin. 2 stars out of 10, with Christopher Reeve being the only thing keeping this from getting a zero.

I thought I would pay tribute to one of Christopher's Reeve's best role ever; and that role is Superman. As many comic book fans follow, the film tells the story of Clark Kent who was born on Krypton and was transported into Earth after the planet exploded and loses his real family. As a new family finds him in the field going home, the couple take Clark as their own son and raise him. What the couple know about Clark is that he has a gift to do things twice as fast than any other ordinary human being; but as time goes by, Clark loses his father of a stroke and decides to take a life of his own as he works for the Metropoltian Newspaper, he meets Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) and he has a crush on her, even saving the woman from being killed. Just like any comic book movie, there is always a villain; with Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor in a campy role along with Ned Beatty as Otis, the sycophant with no sense, these two plan to destroy the world with nuclear weapons. Christopher Reeve doesn't get into the Superman Costume until 45 minutes into the film in which he saves Lois in one scene, busts bad guys and becomes and icon to the public. Superman is the finest comic book movie, and I only wish Christopher Reeve's family the best.

We all have unique reasons for loving a film. That's what makes cinema so magical. It's personal. You can love the meat of the movie, or you can love the trimmings. There's a bunch of good stuff here. Most people my age will refer to "Superman" as THE definitive superhero film. None will ever take it's place. A position no doubt dictated by the age we were when first viewing it. As with films like "Star Wars" and "Raiders of the Lost Ark", WHEN you experience them is just as important as HOW you experience them. As we age, youth's eyes fade. Cynicism creeps in. Experience leads us to see the many injustices this life offers and we become more critical... less likely to accept that which we would rather believe. After all, an adult who clings to the youthful ideals of wonder is simply naive... right?To this day, the opening title sequence for "Superman" fills me with the same magical joy it did over twenty years ago. Never was a score so perfectly crafted around a film. John Williams and Richard Donner created such an indelible experience that over 25 yrs later, Bryan Synger will use the same music and theme to bring the magic to a new generation of wondrous eyes. As for me though, this will always remain the best.

Having recently seen the huge disappointment: Superman Returns, I felt an obligation to watch this version to see how it measured up. I couldn't believe my eyes, and ears! 'My God!' I thought, 'Characters that actually interact with one another!'. That is one of the key elements Superman Returns was missing: dialogue. This movie had so much fun with the story, and the characters, that despite its lack of modern effects, it was still immensely enjoyable to watch. There was real character development, real humor (particularly the scenes between Lex and Otis, which I found hysterical) and a palpable chemistry between Lois and Clark/Superman. From the very beginning, this movie grabs you tightly and keeps you interested. It has an enlivening effect on you, where you feel genuinely happy after watching it, which, to my understanding, is what the movies are all about. Gene Hackman had great one-liners, for instance,"Otis, do you know why the number 200 is so vitally descriptive to both you and I? Because it's your weight, and my IQ", and the entire cast sat right. The roles fit, the effects (for their time) were great, and the script was wonderful. It's amazing to me, that movies like this can still hold up against movies that are made with the gross national product of a small country. If you want Superman in all his glory, ignore 'Returns', and pick up this one; you won't be disappointed. "Otis, do you want to see a very, very long arm?" "Oh no, Mr. Luthor!"

It all begins as planet Krypton's world unwinds, as you're packed inside a vessel and assigned, to a place where you'll excel, where folk will come under your spell, the populations of this place are called mankind. You're discovered by a couple and taken in, while growing up, concealing talents that could win, a loss leads you to the arctic, an experience cathartic, but it's Metropolis, where you firmly stick your pin. The Daily Planet is the place you'll ply one trade, Clark Kent assisting Lois on her crusades, your first encounter with Lex Luthor, a somewhat challenging manoeuvre, as you defy Jor-El's mandate, to save the day.

Every once in a while you'll be flipping channels or meandering through the aisles of the local videorama, and you will stumble upon a film that takes you back to your childhood - and the child-like wonder that accompanied it. After 2 decades, as well as numerous (inferior) sequels and remakes, the original Superman is back.Well, okay, maybe this wasn't the ORIGINAL one, but certainly no other version of the legend has had such a lasting impact as this one. Nor has any other telling of the tale been as thorough and ambitious as that put forth by Director Richard Donner and Story writer Mario Puzo. Add to that the utterly inspired (and inspiring) score by John Williams, and you have a dose of that good old movie magic. Even the opening credits manage to raise your adrenaline levels, as the Superman symbol soars through space across the screen and Williams' opening theme perfectly builds to a masterful crescendo. It will make you want to stand up from your couch and soar out of the nearest window, though I don't recommend it if you live on anything above the first floor.The film begins on Superman's home world of Krypton, a dazzling planet dotted by crystalline cities which, combined again with William's incredible theme music, seem to present an image of heaven itself. A super-race of highly advanced beings, the Kryptonians' only weakness is their pride, as the infant Superman's father, Jor-el points out. It is that pride that leads them to ignore Jor-el's warnings that the planet is doomed by an impending supernova. In a last ditch effort to save his son, as well as some remnant of his race, he sends his infant son Kal-el to the planet Earth in a deep space probe. Marlon Brando, in the role of Jor-el, gives one of his best performances. His role is the stuff of Hollywood legend, since he was paid 4 million dollars for his role of about 10 minutes, but despite his exorbitant fee and minimal screen time, his performance is no less worthy.The probe crashes in a farmer's field in the early 1950's, to be discovered by the Kents, with Glen Ford in the role of Pa Kent. Though he seems to have even less screen time than Brando, his role as the young Superman's moral example is no less pivotal to the story. Superman's childhood and most of his teen years are completely skipped over, however, Jeff East gives an excellent portrayal of the teen Clark Kent, who is only beginning to discover the real extent of his powers. Most of the supporting cast equally distinguish themselves. Gene Hackman creates a charming and amusing villain in Lex Luthor, and while Margot Kidder's portrayal of Lois Lane is a bit forced and grating at times, she still shines with a kind of charm, and it is always fun to watch her slip from the tough-as-nails reporter to the flustered schoolgirl every time the Man of Steel hits the scene. If you still don't like her performance, watch the "Lois Lane screen tests" in the special features section of the DVD, which includes tryouts by various prominent actresses of the day. After watching them, I think you'll agree that the filmmakers made the right casting choice.But of course, the person we will remember the most is Christopher Reeve as Superman, and this is the way he should be remembered. It was certainly his greatest role, and although he overplayed the nerdy and fumbling Clark Kent, and his Superman sometimes pauses to deliver silly platitudes, he does so with an air of wry amusement. He may act like a goody two-shoes, but mostly he just seems to be having a good time showing off, and damn it, why shouldn't he? He's Superman, after all. If I could fly, you could damn well bet I'd be showing off too. This is confirmed in a brief but enjoyable restored scene in which, after saving Lois Lane and the President, as well as foiling several crimes, Superman flies back to his Fortress of Solitude to discuss it with his "Father", or rather, the persona of Jor-el which has been preserved in memory crystals and sent to earth with the infant Kal-el, so that he could benefit from Jor-el's knowledge and wisdom. He admonishes his son that, while it is natural to enjoy being able to show off his powers, he must learn to be humble and keep his vanity in check.It is surprising how little moments of restored footage such as this one seem to breathe much more life into the characters, giving them a depth not seen in their previous cinematic incarnation. And while the film is a tale of the power of good, it is ultimately a tribute to the power of love. It is love that makes Superman more vulnerable than even kryptonite, love that makes him betray his Kryptonian father's admonition to "never interfere with human history", and love that makes him truly human. Though it is nearly an hour into the film before Superman finally makes his first heroic and world-stunning appearance, it is well worth the wait. The action gets more and more exciting, rivaling anything that today's action counterparts, like "The Mummy Returns" can dish out. The effects, though antiquated by today's overblown CGI standards, are still impressive and manage to maintain their looks and grace in their old age. As Lex Luthor launches a diabolical plan involving hijacked twin nuclear missiles, the subsequent chase, followed by Superman's efforts to save an Earthquake-ravaged California, are breathtaking even by today's standards.Like the superhero of title, the film itself is not without its weaknesses. In trying to keep in touch with its vintage comic book roots, it can be a tad cornball at times, and occasionally gets bogged down by what I call the "golly gee-whiz" factor. Yet it does so in a very tongue-in-cheek manner, retaining enough adult sophistication and genuine drama to keep it from lapsing into a mere kiddy show or a parody of the source material. In fact, the film has several surprisingly mature nuances. If, like me, you hadn't seen this film since you were a kid, then you will be in a much better position to fully enjoy the subtleties of the film now. (i.e, Lois Lane, in her rooftop interview of Superman asks "How big are you . . . er, I mean . .. how TALL are you". I obviously missed that as a kid, because it had me rolling with laughter this time around. But despite a few loose threads in the cape and tights, The Man of Steel remains quite intact and appropriately larger than life. It is therefore fitting that this film has been re-mastered and re-released in collector's two-sided DVD format. The sound and picture quality are excellent, wiping away the tarnish of age and making the film shine again. Some of the many features include the aforementioned restored footage (about 10-15 minutes worth), a few additional deleted scenes (which, I thought, should have been restored into the film as well), commentary by director Richard Donner, the Lois Lane screen tests, specials on the making and origins of the film, and a music-only track (well worth the price of the DVD alone).If you haven't seen this movie since you were a kid, and you want to feel like a kid again, rent it now. If you've never seen it at all, then the release of this DVD has taken away your last excuse. You will believe a man can fly.

I had only ever seen the TV version of the original Superman movie until I bought the HD-DVD. So, as you can imagine, on TV it was in hideous pan and scan and with several scenes missing. In reality, I have never seen the 'full' movie until now. And I have to admit, it's far, far superior to Bryan Singer's self-indulgent mess of Superman Returns.It actually takes quite a while to get going, but there's so much going on that the running time certainly doesn't seem two and a half hours. Richard Donner shot it back to back with Superman II, so there's an extended opening act that establishes the plot of the sequel at the same time.Anyone who doesn't know the story of Superman must be from another galaxy, but for those people I will give you a quick soundbite. Kal El is the orphan of the planet Krypton, which has recently blown up. He comes to Earth as a baby and lands in Smallville where he is quickly adopted by a farmer and his wife and renamed Clark Kent. His dense molecular structure and his ability to defy Earth's gravity give him advantages over humans and ultimately he becomes...SUPERMAN! But who doesn't already know that? Clark Kent assumes an exaggerated, clumsy, meek newspaper reporter persona to distance himself from the Superman guise. Somehow everybody, including secret love Lois Lane, falls for it even though the glasses and the hair are all that is different. Hypervillain Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) doesn't take well to the man of steel as he might interfere with his plans for Real Estate Domination (the modern term for World Domination). But does he really think he can win? Hypervillains never know when to be humble.Just about everything that was terrible about Superman Returns is completely right about this one. The cinematography, the music, the editing, the pacing. I won't call the SFX fake, since it doesn't ever take you out of the film, so I'll just call them 'quaint'. For 1978 they're good and even though they are all done optically it's still better than the CGI crapfest of Singer's interpretation.Christopher Reeve's ultimate fate does kind of upset me, so it's good to see him in his prime and being made immortal in a way. The cast of this film does have a lot of big names. Along with the huge scope and spectacle, such a large cast adds to the epic feel of it. Marlon Brando, Gene Hackman, Ned Beatty, Margot Kidder, Terence Stamp and Glenn Ford just seem like a far more dynamic bunch of actors than Kate Bosworth and Kal Penn. Don't you think? It's been 29 years since this film was released and people still make a big fuss over it today. In 29 years, will be still be talking about Superman Returns? Outside of ridicule, I think not.

This is, for me, the best of all the Superman films. It takes into account the mythos of the most famous superhero ever. The beginning is so incredible. I already knew the story (by the way, I'm not a fan boy, just encountered it along the way). I think that the Superman oeuvre is the best plotted out of all these heroes' stories. We get to see the struggles of the father, Jor-el, dealing with the short-sightedness of the civic leaders. We get set up for a future with the three malcontents who are out there somewhere. We get the storied life of Clark Kent/Superman as a kid and the struggles he faced. We get an explanation for the Fortress of Solitude. And finally, there is an introduction to Lex Luther, the mastermind, who will make Superman's life a continuous battle. Clark has left home and seems to have some real insights. He is prepared. Now the story and future stories will move along. Oh, we will miss the kind and accomplished Christopher Reeve for this and other roles.

This movie was truly breathtaking. I recently rewatched it and I'm amazed at how well it holds up. Every actor in this movie will forever be the definitive version of that character, Christopher Reeve and Gene Hackman in particular. If you didn't like this, you're lying to yourself because you want to be edgy. Yes, this is silly and campy, but that's part of why

Superman may be corny and cheesy to some people, but for those who grew up with it it is as original and as exciting as it was 30+ years ago. The spectacle of the film is terrific, the cinematography is wonderful and the special effects are dazzling. In terms of effective scenes, the scenes with Clark and Lois are cute and don't take up too much of the film or harm it in any way, while the confrontation between him and Lex Luthor is suitably bright and breezy and the opening is wonderfully elegiac. The score's main theme is iconic and just superb, John Williams has done some wonderful scores before, this score is no exception. The direction is innovative and the script is sophisticated enough. I also much enjoyed the acting. Christopher Reeve is perfectly cast as Clark/Superman while Gene Hackman is superb as the calculating yet comic Lex Luthor. Overall, just terrific fun! 10/10 Bethany Cox

The Superman movies were favourites of my childhood, but I don't remember them as well as many others. I was never that into superheroes.Therefore I came to "Superman" with some reluctance, which turned out to be unnecessary. "Superman" still stands up as a pretty fantastic movie, and could probably still be used as a template for the modern superhero movie... not that I've really seen any of those.It's got decent characters, a decent story, and the effects are still impressive enough. What really sets it apart, though, is the actual chemistry between Reeve and Kidder, and the wit in the screenplay.

Superman: The Movie (1978) is the Original film and the only that is the best origin story of a Superman who changes himself into an ultimate superhero. Christopher Reeve is and always will be the only SUPERMAN! No one could play Clark Kent/Superman like Christopher Reeve, the film is still instantiate classic till it's day.If anyone could be Superman. It is Christopher Reeve, he fits the part perfectly as the shy yet great reporter Clark Kent, Kal-El last son of Krypton, and Superman, Earths savior from the forces of evil. It is one of my personal favorite Superman movies.Superman is a world known icon and is permanently set in stone as the best Superhero of all time. Though, the only Superman movies I enjoyed are the first three Superman movies that had Christopher Reeve in it! This is the best superhero of the 70's before Marvel and DC start making superhero movies. The origin story of a man who can fly, is terrific, believable and awesome. Marlon Brando's role was one of his best, the most films that become memorable for me are The Godfather (1972), Apocalypse Now (1979) and this film Superman, he completed 1.year earlier this film, before he started filming Apocalypse Now (1979). What else can I say, that was already told? I love this film! I grew up with this film, this is the real original film which has a heart! Man of Steel (2013) reboot to Superman (1978) does not have a heart! This is the real film! The special effects are great, the CGI are barely in it, they aren't. The plot and the story are terrific. The cast is wonderful and acts believable. Superman and Christopher Reeve are the most beloved iconic heroes till it's day. For me Superman will always be Christopher Reeve no one else! I love Smallville (TV Series 2001-2011) and Tom Welling was playing young Clark Kent. Tom Welling will be Clark Kent for me, but Christopher Reeve will be Superman. Reeve also appeared in Season 2 and 3 as special guest in Smallvile which I love that so much. It is sad That Christopher Reeve died in October 10, 2004. John Williams theme score is the best score done for the character. I hear it and it makes me feel so uplifted and I feel like I can do anything. Great cast, beautiful score, and an Epic feeling that is lacking from movies in today's age. It is my favorite superhero film. Superman and his portrayal by Christopher Reeve is a masterpiece and is timeless . Incredible after all this time, this film still holds its own against more recent superhero films and all the CGI that goes with it. Richard Donner's work is a true homage to this classic hero that we have all come to love. I still get shivers when I hear the soundtrack as well. This is a classic of the comic book hero genre, and in most respects the one that really set the standard for all comic book hero films that follow it. The special effects, sets, haircuts and wardrobe may all look dated, but Superman: The Movie remains among the most beloved films of the 1970s. Director Richard Donner brings the comic book hero to life in Christopher Reeve, who admirably adapts from the bumbling Clark Kent to the ultimate caped crusader. The entire cast is brilliant in its supporting roles. Gene Hackman gives a great performance as the unapologetically wicked Lex Luthor. And Margot Kidder delivers a portrait of a strong, ambitious Lois Lane at a time when women were starting to break the glass ceiling. But it is Donner's dedication to the spirit and style of the original Superman's comic book roots, as well as to inject a heavy dose of humor, that make Superman: The Movie a classic. In some ways, it has still not been surpassed, even by the CGI effects and faster-paced action of today's superhero movies.The special effects and CGI look great and they don't suck. This film has a heart and it does not suck and is not bad. Marlon Brando was wonderful a touching movement performance as Jor-El, Clark's father. Incredible after all this time, this film still holds its own against more recent superhero films and all the CGI that goes with it. Richard Donner's work is a true homage to this classic hero that we have all come to love. I still get shivers when I hear the soundtrack as well. A box-office smash, an Academy Award winner* and a fan favorite since it first flew into theaters in December 1978, Superman: The Movie assembles a cast and creative contingent as only a big movie can. At its heart (just as in three sequels) is Christopher Reeve's intelligent, affectionate portrayal of a most human Man of Steel. Watching Superman again isn't just like being a kid again. It's better. The movie's legacy soared even higher when director Richard Donner revisited this beloved adventure 22 years later and integrated eight minutes into the film. Christopher Reeve, Marlon Brando (Jor-El), Gene Hackman (Luthor) and Margot Kidder (Lois Lane) give indelible performances that fuel the film's aura of legend. Superman (also known as Superman: The Movie) is a 1978 superhero film directed by Richard Donner. It is based on the DC Comics character of the same name and stars Marlon Brando, Gene Hackman, Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Glenn Ford, Phyllis Thaxter, Jackie Cooper, Trevor Howard, Marc McClure, Terence Stamp, Valerie Perrine, and Ned Beatty.I love this film and is the best superhero classic film ever made!!!! 10/10 it is my personal favorite Superman movie.

John Williams' epic overture is used to good effect to help illustrate the pretty stellar cast (Christoph Reeve gets only third billing) as this story opens with us on the icebound planet of "Krypton" where "Jor-El" (Marlon Brando) is encouraging his high council members to pass sentence on the treacherous "Gen. Zod" (Terence Stamp) and his co-conspirators. This all seems somewhat pointless as we soon discover that their planet is about to be decimated by it's nearby sun. It's only "Jor-El" and his wife "Lara" (Susannah York) who have the vision to build their son an escape pod and just in the nick of time launch him into space: destination Earth. Fortunately, he arrives under the very noses of the kindly Glenn Ford and Phyllis Thaxter who, after a timely demonstration of his strength, decide to adopt their foundling. Skip forward many years and we start to appreciate the frustrations this young man faces - never being able to use his powers for good (or even American football). Tragedy strikes and to the city he goes where he finds work working for the irascible "Perry White" (Jackie Cooper) at the renowned "Daily Planet". He also realises that he is now free to don his red cape, remove his geeky spectacles, and become the world's first flying, strong-man, super-hero. These antics attract plenty of attention - not least from his colleague "Lois" (Margot Kidder) and from arch crook "Lex Luthor" (Gene Hackman). The former wants an interview (amongst other things); the latter wants to destroy him so he can carry his out his dastardly plan to redefine the geography of California. Some solidly entertaining contributions from Ned Beatty, Valerie Perrine and Marc McClure all help the consistently under-rated Reeve to own the part with a charismatic charm and to convey a quickly paced action adventure that also allows Hackman (perhaps just a bit over-scripted) to play a fun role as a baddie with megalomanic tendencies and a brain to boot. The visual effects have held up remarkably well and though I didn't quite love the ending, this is a strong and confident outing for Reeve that resists the temptation to overly moralise, and delivers us an enjoyable series of good vs. Evil escapades that are well worth a few hours in front of a big screen with proper sound.

I still find it amazing that for over forty years, we've seen countless adaptations and (mis)interpretations of Superman, and yet not one of them can even begin to compare to this masterpiece. Perhaps one day some writers and directors will get together and realize how to recreate this brand of magic. Until then, we will always have Donner's films to fill that role.

"Superman: The Movie" has, by far, the worst plot ever put on film. No movie ever made has a plot that depends so much on stupidity as the plot of Superman. Not even movies about stupidity (e.g., Dumber And Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd) can top it in that category.But let's take a look at the plot: Lex Luthor buys cheap mid-western real state with the intention of sending a nuclear missile to San Andreas fault, thus sinking the whole west coast, which would cause his cheap real state to become the new west coast, thus making him rich. Never mind the fact that the plan is neither physically possible nor economically viable, those are the least of this movie's problems. The problems start when, luckily for Luthor, the US Army, who are depicted as the most incompetent group of buffoons in the history of cinema, decide to launch 2 nuclear missiles within US territory, with enough fuel to reach both coasts and no failsafes whatsoever. They literally just plan to hurl the missiles up into the air and hope for the best because if anything goes wrong, they're screwed. The missiles are going to be transported from the base where they are stored to the launching base (where no one will ever check if anything went wrong) by a group of soldiers so dumb and horny they'll leave their post in unison at the sight of a scantily-clad woman lying in the pavement ahead of them.It's bad enough that the only real difference between Luthor's plan to hijack the missiles and a Coyote's plan to capture the Road Runner is the number of empty Acme boxes lying around afterwards. It's bad enough that the plan actually works, thanks to the spectacular incompetence of the US Army. It's bad enough that Otis (Luthor's henchman) demonstrates that he is the stupidest living being ever put on film by screwing up a task a 6-year-old child would've done correctly. But what makes this sequence completely unbearable is the fact that Otis' screw up is going to play such an important part in the plot later on. Quite literally, Otis' braindead screw up is the one and only reason Superman manages to defeat Luthor.Then Luthor realizes that Superman could still foil his plans so he decides to get rid of him, and using reasoning that Uwe Boll would've been ashamed to put on film, he "deduces", out of the blue, the existence and effects of Kryptonite. Then he lures Superman into his lair (in the sewers) so he can kill him. At this point, Superman is completely clueless regarding the missiles and Luthor's plan. If Luthor has kept his mouth shut, he would've won. But just to prove that this movie is nothing but a bad James Bond movie written by Ed Wood, and that Luthor is nothing more than a poor man's Goldfinger, he tells Superman everything about his plan, including how to stop it if he desires to do so. Then he puts the Kryptonite necklace on Superman, pushes him into a pool, and continues his James Bond-villain impersonation by conveniently walking away for no readily apparent reason, hoping that Superman is nice enough to die unsupervised and stupid enough not no realize that all he has to do is to bend over and let the necklace slip from his neck. All Luthor had to do was to wait two minutes for Superman to drown. If he was in a hurry, he could've helped him. But no, he walks away.So Superman is in the pool, a Kryptonite necklace slowly draining away his powers and even his very life. This is the first time in the whole movie that Superman cannot simply muscle his way out of a problem. So what does he do? Does he demonstrate that being a hero is about the heart, not the muscles? Does he demonstrate that a hero might be down, but he's never out? Does he demonstrate that a true hero will always find a way to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat no matter what the odds are? No, that would be SuperGIRL. What Superman demonstrates is that he's absolutely worthless without his muscles. So how does he get out of there? Well, it turns out that Otis' screw up in programming the missile has conveniently sent it to the town where the grandparents of Luthor's henchwoman live. And she saves Superman so he can save her grandparents, in what is effectively the worst "plot twist" in the history of cinema.And when you thought things couldn't get any stupider, they do. Superman stops the first missile, but not the second one, which strikes San Andreas fault and causes a huge earthquake. Several really crappy FX scenes later (including one where Superman lifts a whole mountain range which, incredibly enough, stops the earthquake instead of causing a bigger one) Lois Lane dies. So (and prepare your brain cells for this one) Superman flies around the Earth, reversing Earth's rotation, and thus reversing time, magically undoing all the stuff that had just happened. He literally just hits the "undo" button and makes all the bad things go away.If a lesser superhero, let alone a female one, had tried to get away with this kind of garbage it would've instantly won a Razzie for worst screenplay of the century.

It remains one of the most fascinating slices of my childhood. The fascination is the same. The same the emotion. And the believe than Christopher Reeves remains the best Superman. Sure, after decades, it could be seen as naive. But its freshness is yhe same. Like the noble moral message.

After years of protracted negotiations, Alexander and Ilya Salkind succeeded in buying the rights to "Superman" from DC Comics. Movies with the "Man of Steel" had been made before of course, but they had mostly been cheap B-productions. And that was certainly not what the Salkinds had in mind. The father & son corporation had visions of a big-time, Hollywood extravaganza with major-name actors.First, they had to find a director. Ilya wanted to ask Steven Spielberg, but Alexander protested. He thought Spielberg was too busy with "that fish movie of his" and suggested Richard Donner instead. Since Donner just came from hit movie "The Omen", the younger Salkind agreed.The first star to come on board was Marlon Brando. The fact that he was hot after winning an Oscar for "The Godfather" a few years earlier was reflected in his salary requests. Brando demanded (and was given) $4,5 million for the roughly 10 minutes he was in the film. To many people's surprise the actor refused to memorize his dialogue, instead demanding to be given his lines from cue cards behind the cameras.Superstars like Robert Redford, Paul Newman and Sylvester Stallone were then approached to play the lead. Something they all declined. Explaining they didn't want to appear in front of a camera in a "silly suit" like that. So, the role instead went to unknown Christopher Reeves, who was contracted to make both "Superman" and its sequel. A deal that earnt him a paltry $250,000 for both films.To save money, the Salkinds wanted to film "Superman" and "Superman II" simultaneously. That led to an upsetting conflict with Richard Donner, and it all ended with the director being fired. Although that in no way diminished the audience's interest. "Superman" was the number one film at the US box office for eleven weeks in a row. It would also inspire three sequels of descending quality.

This is it ladies and gents...my 200th review. I thought long and hard about what I would dedicate my 200th review to...would it be something new and flashy, a movie that I knew was a knockout, something more personal to me?? One of my faves perhaps?? I finally decided on this film. Since I was a little boy I have loved Superman. Even now many years later I am still fascinated by the character, I mean he has withstood 6 decades of changes and world upheaval and still one of the best selling heroes of our time. Without further ado let's talk about Richard Donner's big screen epic Superman: The Movie. Thanks for reading my reviews!! Superman: The Movie MUST be judged not by today's standards but by the standards set for films of the late seventies/early eighties. That's not to say that it doesn't stand up for itself even almost 3 decades later but it's true brilliance may be lost if you don't remember when and where it was made. Brilliant Director Richard Donner (Lethal Weapon series, The Goonies, and stocks of brilliant TV series) I think really knows what the audience wants out of characters. I'm sure he tread on thin ice when it came to bringing the infamous Man of Steel to the big screen having only comics and TV and radio before him to base it on. Donner took everything Superman stood for, truth, justice, American Way, fighting evil, his estrangement from his home planet, his love for Lois Lane and put it all into this film.Nothing is left out of Superman, we have the origins including an in depth look into Krypton (which at the time would have been a first.) We see Kal-El's parents and their conflicts, we are given a small introduction to Clark Kent's youth and his coming of age and then everything else we know and love about the Superman legend. Everything from "The Phantom Zone" to Lois and Clark falling in love. I always thought the casting for Superman was it's one downfall but after watching the film again I really see that it wasn't such an error in judgment.The late and incredible Christopher Reeve truly was built for Superman. He embodied the character and created two completely different people to the point where you believed a pair of glasses and a different part in the hair was the perfect alter ego. His Clark Kent was goofy but pure and honest but completely different from the strength and character of Superman. His Superman was tall, larger than life, strong, honest, too good to be true. He was perfect and he looked both parts perfectly too and he will forever be known....in my books...as The Superman of film. Margot Kidder pretty much had Lois Lane nailed. I always thought she was a little old for the role and wasn't sure she looked the part but the personality was perfect, strong, forceful, pig headed, leap before you look kinda gal. And the chemistry with Reeve's Superman was very good. They established a fast but very bonding romance between the two characters. The supporting cast was also well done...Jackie Cooper was great as Perry White, Marc McClure was perfectly cast as the young, naive Jimmy Olsen, and Marlon Brando was an awesome screen presence for Jor-El and considering the billing he got for his brief role it's good that he had that pull. Gene Hackman is a brilliant actor, I've loved him in many roles...he was not right for Lex Luthor or perhaps even his character wasn't written right. Although diabolical and evil it was done in a comedic way right down to the doofus sidekick which was more cartoonish than it was big budget film. You just didn't truly feel the tension and arch rivalry between Reeve and Hackman's characters. The only other beef I can find with Superman is the overlooking of some key elements of reality. Yes I know Superman must leave reality at the door and that's easy to do with such a brilliant beautifully done Epic but the whole concept of Superman reversing time by making the earth spin backwards, or turning into Superman and having his "human" clothes literally vanish into thin air...these are things that the writers should have looked more closely into. But I think they focused so much of their time on making sure other elements were in place that they let these things slide and that's okay but it's such a minor thing but still with such perfection in other areas they stand out.Special effects like this had never been seen before and they are still stunning. Watching Superman fly and the explosions and earthquake and his miracle powers are just wonderful and will forever be in the mind of movie goers. This is such a brilliant film and put a stamp on the genre of superheroes that every other film will try to live up to. For the record I am thrilled and excited about the upcoming Bryan Singer Superman film, I think he will take everything that was great about this original and utilize it to continue on the epic. Bravo to him!! Superman: The Movie also had and still has one of the most haunting, beautiful and stunning scores ever created. The music became his anthem no matter where Superman is. This is one of the best films ever, and will always be a classic especially to me!! 9/10

Before the Man of Steel hit the big screen back in the seventies, courtesy of Producer Illya Salkind, Director Richard Donner, and Warner Brothers, we were assured that we would believe a man could fly.  I am not one to doubt studio promotions, but just like everybody else I was game to find out if it was so.  Did I come out of Superman: The Movie believing that indeed the son of Jor-el also known as Kal-el also known as Superman also known as Clark Kent could take to the airways without benefit of plane, hot air balloon, rocket pack, or zeppelin?   Nahhh...of course not, but Christopher Reeve looked a lot better faking it then any of his predecessors such as George Reeve and Kirk Alyn.   The truth is that Superman: The Movie has a whole lot going for it besides the flight abilities of Reeve.  It also has a multitude of things that work against it.Unless you're some kind of a vampire who has been locked away in a casket for the past hundred years or so, you pretty much know the story.  The Planet Krypton which has a Red Sun was spinning around out there in the far reaches of space somewhere.  Jor-el (Marlon Brando) had come to the conclusion that Krypton was going to explode wiping out all Kryptonians. Unable to convince anyone else of his findings, and not having a spaceship available that would carry him and Mrs. Kal-el (Susannah York), he packed up his only begotten son Kal-el along with his pampers and blasted him off towards Earth.  Since Earth has a yellow sun, this would somehow increase the density of Kal-el, giving him super powers far beyond anybody but the publishers of DC comics could ever imagine.  After being adopted by a farm couple known as Ma and Pa Kent (Phyllis Thaxter & Glenn Ford), Kal-el became young Clark Kent.  Later in life he took a job as an ace reporter at the Daily Planet ran by Editor Perry White (Jackie Cooper), which he used as a secret identity until he was needed to get down and get funky in his identity of Superman, protector of truth, justice and the American way.   It was at the Daily Planet that he met the love of his life, Ace Reporter Lois Lane (Margot Kidder).  Lois had the hots for Superman too as long as he was Superman and not Clark Kent.  When he was Clark, Lois wouldn't be caught dead in a Honeymoon Suite at Niagara Falls with him.  But that's another story, as you well know.Before dispensing with the well known back story, Superman opens with a sequence where three criminals are banished into The Phantom Zone in order to set up Superman II.  You just have to give it props for that instead of waiting until just before the credits role to tack on the obligatory sequel setting end as most film makers have a penchant for doing.  Of course it helps when you know for sure there's going to be a number 2 before your number one makes it onto the big screen.   Marlon Brando is okay as Jor-el but I can never seem to shake the feeling that I'm watching Brando in a white wig our forefathers would themselves have been proud to wear, and his delivery amounts to giving some kind of lecture to the Continental Congress. Krypton itself is not at all like one would imagine having read the comics, as it is displayed here as some kind of eternal homage to cubic zirconium.  It's pretty to look at but has no substance.This movie version doesn't spend much time with Clark as a boy, but they are some of the best moments in the film in spite of the fact that Jeff East who plays young Clark had his dialog dubbed by Reeve.   Other than near the end of the film, it's the only time the film shows some real heart regarding Superman or anyone else in it.  One almost hated to see Superman/Clark grow up.In the comics that I grew up with in the sixties, Clark was always portrayed to be somewhat of a coward by Superman, in order to help protect his secret identity.  In Superman: The Movie, Reeve's Clark is not only a "girly man" but is pretty much a bumbling idiot.  While it strikes much more of a contrast between Clark and Superman, it is overplayed and overdone to the point that it ends up making us dread the moments when Superman does become Clark.  That being said, when Reeve does put on his cape and takes flight, his portrayal as Superman is without peer.I don't have much of a problem with Margot Kidder's portrayal of Lois Lane as it seems to be right on the mark as the character was written for her. The problem is not with her characterization but not for one minute do we believe in Superman's sudden infatuation with her or why he is even attracted to her.  The only concern Lois seems to have is where is her next big story coming from and how long it is till her next cigarette.  She seems to be the epitome of a liberated woman, so the fact that she would suddenly go ga-ga over Superman doesn't quite hold water even if he does take time out to rescue her early in the picture, and later give her flying lessons. The relationship is never developed in a way that makes any sense at all.Gene Hackman is way over the top also as Lex Luthor but at least he does it with a bit of style and fun.  Not so Ned Beatty who plays his henchman Otis. Otis is supposed to be comic relief, but the only relief you'll get is if you pop a couple of antacids in order to be able to stomach the character. We do not for one minute believe that Lex Luther would keep a total dunce such as Otis around for any reason, as there would just have to be less excruciatingly painful criminals in Metropolis willing to run errands for him.  The character of Otis is more than just an annoyance as every scene he is in drags the story down to a mediocre level.  Valerie Perrine's Miss Teschmacher is kind of a dumb bulb also, but her character is at least kept in check to the point where she is even likeable.  And alas, just as most of the characters are in this film, Perry White is played by Jackie Cooper as a simple minded goof ball.What is good about Superman are the flying sequences.  As a matter of fact when Superman is zooming around performing various rescues ranging from a cat to a president and capturing criminals, the film as a whole takes flight.  The special effect all around are well done, especially Superman's rescue of Lois from a helicopter, and later as he races around California to repair the damage being done during an Earthquake.  The scenes where he takes to the sky with Lois for a romantic interlude are almost lyrical.
John Williams give us another one of his no holds bar musical scores.  Its well done for this kind of film, and apparently the producers and director thought so too as it plays over top of some of the longest running opening and closing film credits known to man.  In other words, when the film starts you'll have plenty of time to still pop another batch of popcorn, run to the bathroom and make it back to your recliner before we come close to reaching the planet Krypton.Besides Otis, the biggest problem with Superman: The Movie comes near the end.  In order to resolve a plot situation which if left as it was would have caused major problems for the subsequent sequel, the writer, director or somebody has Superman perform a stunt that reeks of lazy film making.  It opens a plot hole as wide and as deep as the Grand Canyon.  Usually in a film based on a comic book character, one can overlook such devices, but this one is so glaring and obvious in its ineptitude that it one will be forced to mumble a certain word pertaining to bull droppings.  I haven't felt this cheated since my first girlfriend dumped me for another guy.Superman: The Movie is highly watchable in many aspects.  With a little more thought and consideration in how to bring the classic characters to the screen, it could have been one of the great comic book films of all time. Unfortunately, when you can only make me think of what might have been or could have been, I have no choice but to give you my grade which for Superman: The Movie is a C+.

This is my 301st review on IMDb, so I'm going to make this short, simple, and super:"You'll believe a man can fly!" - the tagline for "Superman"He stood for "truth, justice, and the American way." Ahh, to just think that this is the movie that started it all, ladies and gentlemen. Carefully adapted from the popular DC Comics character created by Joe Shuster and Jerry Siegel, Richard Donner's 1978 epic has stood the test of time to become the supreme superhero film. Alongside Tim Burton ("Batman") and Sam Raimi ("Spider-Man"), Donner earned his place in cinematic history by becoming the first director to make a perfect superhero film. Superman is the most recognizable comic book superhero in history, and when Clark Kent (the late, great Christopher Reeve) rips open his shirt to reveal that symbolic "S" an hour and 11 minutes into the film, you know that it's one of the greatest cinematic moments. This epic defined the superhero film, and in the 27 years since its release, every subsequent comic book superhero movie is forever indebted to "Superman." The plot (and what a plot) runs complete throughout its epic 154 minutes and believe me, there's not a single wasted moment in the film's entire running length. Of course, Clark Kent is sent from his dying home world of Krypton by his father Jor-El (the late Marlon Brando), grows up and works at the Daily Planet, falls in love with Lois Lane (Margot Kidder), and must foil the diabolical plans of Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman). Put simply, there will never be another movie like "Superman," and who can forget those *cosmic* credits, the aforementioned "S" scene, the Superman and Lois date over New York City and later above the clouds, and that one, definitive climax when Superman lets out a painful cry that reveals that one glint of humanity that he's earned from his time on earth. Reeve will forever be linked to the role that really made people believe he was a super man, even when he wasn't wearing the blues, reds, and yellows, and was instead confined to the prison that's called a wheelchair. But we know that he's up there, flying high with the Almighty and proving to us all that he is who we believed he was. The recent news that Bryan Singer ("X-Men") is directing a new Superman is not exactly getting me giddy, considering the low standards of today's film-making and the onslaught of CGI effects that dominate many Hollywood action movies these days. I love "Superman" and even today, I'm still touched by its magic, and deeply saddened by the real-life tragedies that have followed it.A perfect, "super" 10/10.

One of the better comic book movies. The story is vague (something about Lex Luthor causing California to sink into the ocean), but the movie holds your interest. The acting is mostly good--Reeve is perfect as Superman, Margot Kidder is OK as Lois Lane, Gene Hackman is fun as Luthor, but Valerie Perrine and Ned Beatty are just annoying. The script is a problem--some times it's funny, other times it's horrible. It was also obviously written "down" for the kids in the audience. Also there are lapses in logic and the special effects are pretty laughable. Still, I was never bored and the acting by Reeve and the music score by John Williams carry you through the bad sections. Worth watching--perfect for the entire family. Try to see it letter-boxed though--it doesn't work on full-screen TV.

A baby from the planet Crypton is sent to live on Earth.This movie has several distinct stories within an overarching narrative. Each one features the title character at a different stage of his life and has its own visual style. Superman is portrayed as a Christ-like figure throughout and many scenes contain subtext on this theme.The opening sequence is as strong as any great sci-fi movie with Crypton brought memorably to life and featuring a famous cameo from the great Marlon Brando as Superman's natural father. Brando's godlike presence helps to convince you that the son he sends to Earth is going to be someone quite special.Superman has another Hollywood legend in Glen Ford as his adopted father. Ford was equally as naturalistic an actor as Brando but he brings a more human (no pun intended) and slightly lower-key presence to the second stage of Superman's life. This part of the movie contains some of the best cinematography with its rural landscapes. One image of a train running along a track above a cornfield is one of many beautiful sequences.Both parts of the movie mentioned above serve the origin purpose of the character and finish quite emotionally. After about an hour I found myself ready for a change of pace and tone, which is exactly what we get as we meet a fully grown Superman and his alter ego Clark Kent in the big city of Metropolis.What follows is almost like a different movie. It is funny, action packed and contains superb performances from Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder who have excellent chemistry. Reeve is so perfect for the roles of Superman/Clark that one of the reasons later incarnations of the character never worked for me was that he could never be replaced. He looks like the comic book drawing of the character and effortlessly switches between the two versions of the man. Kidder is not your typical leading lady with her husky, smokers voice and ultra confident personality but is the perfect foil for Reeve in Kent mode.Gene Hackman steals the show whenever he appears on screen making homicidal, megalomaniac Lex Luthor not only funny but feel like a credible antagonist to a virtually indestructible superhero. Ned Beatty and Valerie Perrine provide solid support as his criminal sidekicks.All of the above performances and the casting decisions made are a massive part of what makes the film last so well and compete in today's market where superhero movies reign supreme.The special effects were epic in their day but are slightly dated now. Particularly the flying scenes and some shots where scale models can be easily spotted. However some hold up as well as any, such as the Crypton visuals and the helicopter sequence.The great John Williams wrote another fabulous score and in particular Superman's main theme is an unforgettable piece of music. My four year old daughter heard it once and was humming the tune for days.I can only imagine what a breath of fresh air Superman must have been on its release. The seventies was a renaissance decade for American cinema but a lot of it came with too much depressing realism. Superman did not showcase quite the same standard of spectacle as Star Wars, but it was far less centred around violence and with it Richard Donner kicked off the superhero genre.

The mighty man Superman(1978), is an above average outing based on screen comic book by Jerry Siegel and Jose Shuster and attractive script by notorious writers as Mario Puzo , David Newman , Leslie Newman and Robert Benton . This breathtaking legend begins with the fateful planet Krypton . Surviving the destruction of the planet , there a baby , Kal-El , lives in an isolated Kryptonian community about to destroyed , , that's why he is sent by his father Jor-El (Marlon Brando) to live among mankind on Earth . As the alien orphan is sent from his dying planet to Earth , where he's cared by his adopted parents (Glenn Ford, Phyllis Thaxter) , as he grows up to become his adoptive home's first and greatest superhero . Kent (Jeff East) discovers that he was born with extraordinary powers and abilities beyond imagination . Nowadays, living in Metropolis , Clark Kent (Christopher Reeve) takes up a job as a reporter for the Daily Planet and starts to fall head over heals for fellow reporter Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) .You'll believe a man can fly. The movie that makes a legend come to life.Big budget blockbuster in which Christopher Reeve made an excellent movie debut and launched his career with the help of Kryptonite . Thrilling first Superman outing with spectacular frames , action-packed, impressive feats , usual romance , hilarious set pieces and overwhelming entertainment . Exciting and sophisticated story of a young hero , Superman , with superpowers , loosely based on the comic book series , which should delight the kiddies and occassionaly tickle the adults . Christopher Reeve and Margot Kidder are great to look at , and much better than other movies . An amusing and over-the-top installment in which Superman : Christopher Reeve takes on a villainous entrepreneur called Lex Luthor , the always magnificent Gene Hackman , along with his henchmen , botcher Nead Beatty and beautiful Valerie Perrine . It results in some overwhelming and fun scenes in which Superman battles incredible forces . Along the way , Superman romances his flame Lois Lane : Margot Kidder as main role . Considered to be the most attractive and the best of the four Superman/Reeve main entries. As Reeve deserves credit for remaining true to role through four movies . The film is fast-moving , agreeable and funny , including charming action scenes, apart from the expendable romantic interludes when Superman falls for Louis Lane , being an enjoyable piece of first-class entertainment . Fun and well-intentioned screenplay with a promising satiric style that is uneven developed through the movie, though providing a good sprinkly of sympathetic lines. The film contains thrills , abundant special effects, and noisy action that benefits from a wickest sense of humour and a joyous zing . However , traditional style special effects are old quality and it appears that someone may have walked off with parts of the script . Fine cast with Christopher Reeve who is pretty good and excels in his sympathy and attractivenes . As well as Gene Hackman in his usual role as ironical Lex Luthor , accompanied by his hoodlum Ned Beatty who's a true showman playing a roguish crook at his best. There are enough traditional as well as modern digital effects to satisfy the most avid Science Fiction and Fantasy fans . Along with three main starring : Christopher Reeve, Gene Hackman , Margot Kidder , there are other secondaries delivering brief interpretations, such as : Marlon Brando , Maria Schell , Susannah York , Valerie Perrine , Terence Stamp , Glenn Ford , Phyllis Thaxter , Marc McClure , Terence Stamp , Sarah Douglas , Harry Andrews and several others . Sparkling technicolor cinematography by Geoffrey Unsworth lends the top-dressing to the proceedings . And, of course, catching soundtrack by the great and prolific composer John Williams, including the classic leitmotif . This better than average picture was competently directed by Richard Donner, giving a correct approach , outstanding Reeve's characterization as Superman .This high-flying series about Superman produced by Alexander, Yla Salkind are as follows : Superman 1978 by Richard Donner with Christopher Reeve, Margot Kidder, Gene Hackman, Ned Beatty, Jackie Cooper, Trevor Howard , Marlon Brando, Terence Stamp, Maria Schell, Marc McClure . Superman 2 , 1980, by Richard Lester with Reeve, Kidder, Terence Stamp, Sarah Douglas . Superman III by Richard Lester with Reeve, Richard Pryor , Annie Ross , Pamela Stephenson , Margot Kidder , Gene Hackman , Annette O'Toole . And downright and dull third outing , deemed to be an overwrought , overlong and embarrassing sequel : ¨Superman 4 The Quest for peace¨ 1987 by Sidney J Furie with Jackie Cooper , Marc McClure , Jon Cryer , Sam Wanamaker, Mark Pillow , Mariel Hemingway . And in similar style Supergirl 1984 by Jeannot Szwarc with Helen Slater, Faye Dunaway, Peter Cook, Mia Farrow.

I wanted this again recently after a gap of maybe twenty years.In that time we have seen CGI become ubiquitous, Marvel become possibly the most profitable studio of all time with a never-ending conveyor belt of super heroes, and endless remakes of films that didn't need to be remade.And then there is this. The proper original big screen superhero movie, and yes, definitely, uhuh, it's still the best.There's no overblown CGI (none at all in fact), and it's all the more believable and "realistic" for it. Reeves is absolute perfection, as is Kidder, Hackman and the rest of the cast.The soaring John Williams score is arguable among his very best, and sheer joy of seeing a man, who really does embody the very best in any of us, fly and even turn back time to save the woman he loves is just, well, as good as this genre gets, and has ever got.There is only one Christopher Reeves, and one Superman.

Back in 1978 Superman became the first superhero film and made with the intent of treating it's source material seriously. It was a big special effects movie that was made at the time of the rise of blockbusters like Jaws and Star Wars and still has fans today. But does it stand the test of time.On the planet of Krypton the ruling council ignores their leading scientist Jor-El's (Marlon Brando) warnings that their planet is about to face destroy and threaten him with exile to the Phantom Zone, a fate worst then death, if he tries to leave the planet. Given no option and seeing that his planet is about to be destroyed he put his only son Kal-El in a space ship and send him to Earth with all the knowledge Krypton has. On Earth Kal-El crash lands in Smallville and is raised by Jonathan and Martha Kent (Glenn Ford and Phyllis Thaxter) as their son, Clark. Years later Clark (Christopher Reeve) becomes a reporter for a major newspaper, the Daily Planet and the North Pole his he created his Fortress of Solitude where he learns about his planet and its history. He becomes Superman, having abilities no one else Earth has and soon starts a relationship with Lois Lane (Margot Kidder). But villain Lex Luthor (Gene Hackman) plans to commit the crime of the century and willing to kill Superman to do it.Before Superman all superhero programs and film serials were either seen as children programmes, like the George Reeves Adventures of Superman or the camp Adam West Batman. Even as comics were getting darker and more serious comic books were still seen as children's entertainment. This Superman project had a lot of potential, being one of the best known superhero and it had a long production. A number of directors were attached, Francis Ford Coppola, Steven Spielberg, William Friedkin and Sam Peckinpah. Guy Hamilton of Bond fame, director Goldfinger, was set to director but had to leave because he could not live in England for more then a month because he was tax cheat. Richard Donner stepped in, having only made The Omen and a few TV Movies. Donner's directing is mixed, he is able to come up with some grand visions for Krypton and a dark sombre tone when Jor-El sends his son off as the planet is being destroyed. The action sequences are strong and the special effects were the best available at the time, though the flying effect does look a bit ropey by modern standard. But I do like the physicality of using models and more does need to be used for modern blockbusters. There are also tender moments between Superman and Lois Lane, the flying send being the most famous and Donner did do well for the most part for having to fit in a lot of the Superman story in one film, his origins from his childhood to his early days as Superman and mixing the tone and action sequences.For me however I do not have the nostalgia for Superman that some people have, growing up with this series. They see it a proper serious superhero film, but I find there are still problems. There is a lack of a good antagonist: you can not really respect Lex Luther as the main villain of this film. He sometimes has a dark edge, killing a police officer like a Bond villain but for the most part Luthor and his henchpeople are just played for laughs taking away an threat they main hold and some of the leaps of logic is extraordinary, particularly how they figure out Superman's weakness is Kryptonite. Luthor has an extraordinarily dumb play and its only in Superman Returns when Luthor is actually a sinister and creditable villain. I think Donner was so focused on showing Superman's origins he didn't have time to develop a good villain. There are also so really cheesy and silly moments like when Lois and Clark at robbed and Clark's exaggerated geeky traits. There is also no set scene of time, with a lot of the characters looking like they were from the 50s. We can also not over look the ending, how the hell is spinning around the world and making it rotate backwards able to make time go backwards? There are a lot of problems with it and it causes a lot of plot holes, including Superman could have gotten both nukes within seconds. It is the type of ending which pretty much say the previous event didn't matter because we reset time.We know that there was a long casting process to find someone who could play Clark Kent and Superman, from James Caan, to Christopher Walken, to Arnold Schwarzenegger. Reeve was an unknown stage actor but he really was Superman, who was torn between Jol-El who was his mentor and his desire to protect Earth because of the ideals he was raised on. This Superman is a little more arrogant but that is because he is still young and starting out as a hero. But of course he is still a good man. Reeve had excellent chemistry with Kidder, both as Clark and Superman and she is strong in role as a smart journalist on the up. My view on Hackman is that his role was ruined by the comedy but at least there was so banner with Valerie Perrine. There is no denying Brando was a great Jol-El, giving his character a calm grandness and he played his role deadly seriously.Plus Superman has one of John Williams' best scores, a really powerful rousing bit music.Overall Superman is a fun film but what lets it down are some cheesy/silly moments, a bit too much comedy and a lack of a treating antagonist. It is not the classic some people think it is but it is a worthy film. A 7.5/10 would be a fair IMDb score.

Before watching Superman, I was prepared to allow for less-than-impressive special effects and funny hairdos, since it was released in 1978. I was going to judge the effects based on effects from films contemporary with Superman, not modern films, and maybe get some campy fun out of some of them. I'm willing to forgive the silly glowing white tinfoil suits everyone on Krypton wears, because that was a pretty common way for the future and futuristic things to be portrayed. I remember believing that we would all be traveling via jet packs and flying cars by now. I got a kick out of the flying disc that captured General Zod (Terrance Stamp) and his cohorts to send them to their punishments, even though it looks really silly (as a kid, it really freaked me out). On the positive side for special effects, I must say that the film does a pretty convincing job with Superman's flying, especially for the time.But, special effects and aging aside, I was shocked at how utterly and completely boring the movie was. Booooooooooorrrring. The first 45 minutes, focusing on the destruction of Krypton, baby Kal's trip to Earth, Clark Kent as a teenager in Smallville (who doesn't look anything like the man he'll grow up to become), the death of Pa Kent, and Clark's time in the Fortress of Solitude were the most boring 45 minutes of a comic book movie I've ever seen. It literally put me to sleep. I couldn't believe how much it all sucked. To make things worse, scenes were added to this snooze-fest for the DVD release, making it all longer than the original.I'm assuming they spent so much time indulging in Superman's origin to A) make the movie feel more epic, and B) to get Marlon Brando (who plays Jor-El) more screen time. I hung in through this because I knew it got better. Then the Smallville stuff happened, which was beyond lame. You'd think the parts where Clark showed his powers would at least be cool, but it only made things worse. I've never seen a more gay run than the one teenage Clark exhibits when racing alongside a train. Seriously, he looked like a marionette (which, you will note, is a much gayer word than puppet).But, I persevered (after a night's sleep), and continued watching, knowing that the movie would get better once it headed to Metropolis. Of course, when the first third of a movie is terrible, it's already not a good movie. But, I had to see it through, if for no other reason that my home city, Calgary, doubles as Metropolis, and its always fun to see your own city on film (well, unless your own city is Los Angeles or New York, then its old hat). And you know what? The film did get better when it shifted to Metropolis, and the reason why can be summarised in two words: Christopher Reeve.Christopher Reeve's portrayal of the bumbling Clark Kent, juxtaposed with the confident and heroic Superman, is spot-on. Perhaps the best portrayal of a comic book character ever. It's pretty fun the first time you see each side of Supes portrayed on screen, and Reeve manages to maintain his solid performance throughout. The problem is that almost everything that surrounds his performance sucks. Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor is terrible, made even worse by his bumbling sidekick played by Ned Beatty. Margot Kidder is fine as Lois Lane, but nothing special. She has a nice scene when she meets Superman at her apartment, after he saved her life, but it's completely ruined by her god-AWFUL mental poetry while flying with Superman. Seriously, it sounded like it was written by a seven year old girl.Skip to the big exciting climax, which is one of my favourite bad movie moments of all-time. Lex Luthor is successful in detonating a nuclear missile along the San Andreas faultline, leading to an earthquake that should swallow up the entire west coast. Superman fights to stop it, but fails to prevent Lois Lane's death from being swallowed and crushed by the torn-apart Earth. Here's the best part: mourning the loss of Lois, Supes does the only thing he can-- he flies around the Earth so fast that it reverses the rotation of the planet. Forget whether or not such a thing is even within Superman's capabilities, I'll allow that it is. What's awesome about this (and by "awesome", I mean "awesomely horrible") is that reversing the Earth's rotation causes time to move backward. BWAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA! Why the screenwriters (amongst whom is The Godfather scribe Mario Puzo) thought this would lead to time travel, instead of say, causing everything on Earth that is not apart of the ground to fly off into space, is beyond me. And even if you do except the time travel, why on Earth would Superman not travel back in time long enough to prevent the nuclear bomb to go off? He only travels back far enough to prevent Lois' death, says hi to her, then leaves her and Jimmy Olson in the desert with a car with no gas (which makes you think that he thought her initial death was just too quick-- I guess he prefers starvation and dehydration). How did this even save Lois? Wouldn't the earthquake swallow her up again once Superman left? The movie then ends with Superman bringing Luthor and Beatty to prison, without ever showing how Superman captured them, because, really, who wants to see a guy defeat his archnemesis in action movies anyway? These things are best left to the imagination. I was shocked and dumb-founded at how overwhelmingly bad this movie was, absolutely terrible. I'd rather watch Batman & Robin. 2 stars out of 10, with Christopher Reeve being the only thing keeping this from getting a zero.

I thought I would pay tribute to one of Christopher's Reeve's best role ever; and that role is Superman. As many comic book fans follow, the film tells the story of Clark Kent who was born on Krypton and was transported into Earth after the planet exploded and loses his real family. As a new family finds him in the field going home, the couple take Clark as their own son and raise him. What the couple know about Clark is that he has a gift to do things twice as fast than any other ordinary human being; but as time goes by, Clark loses his father of a stroke and decides to take a life of his own as he works for the Metropoltian Newspaper, he meets Lois Lane (Margot Kidder) and he has a crush on her, even saving the woman from being killed. Just like any comic book movie, there is always a villain; with Gene Hackman as Lex Luthor in a campy role along with Ned Beatty as Otis, the sycophant with no sense, these two plan to destroy the world with nuclear weapons. Christopher Reeve doesn't get into the Superman Costume until 45 minutes into the film in which he saves Lois in one scene, busts bad guys and becomes and icon to the public. Superman is the finest comic book movie, and I only wish Christopher Reeve's family the best.