Could have been better without the stupid kid. Adding Smith to the cast added nothing and really detracted from the movie. Judging from the comments many agree. His character was a disrespectful, loud mouth, brat that I actually had hoped would have been killed in the end.

First off, if you are a fan of the original, like me, you will see this movie in spite of all the good or bad reviews. It is a different take on the original while dealing with much of the same themes; namely,our tendency to destroy ourselves, others and everything. What I found fascinating was the film's take on the character of Klaatu, which seemed more realistic and more alien than the original. Also, I liked the reason for the the visitation...which, like the original, was not the conventional invasion theme. Unfortunately, this central reason, which lies at the core of the film, has been so frequently preached, that I felt it was basically lost on the choir. But if you can bear that and go along for the ride, I think you will enjoy it. Like the recent X-Files film, seen on a big screen, the CGI flaws and lack of big whiz bang special effects, will be very apparent and the film will seem more remote. But a smaller-artsy-screen (20'X 50')seems to make it easier to connect with; for this reason, I have a feeling that it will be a cult classic once it hits the DVD and large flat screen TV viewing crowd.The movie could have done more character development and been much more complex, for our times. But in such complicated times, sometimes it's just nice to go see a simple movie with basic themes.

Jaden Smith is the worst part of this entire film! He alone makes it almost unwatchable!

Watching this remake of The Day The Earth Stood Still reminded me of how Q in
the opening episode of Star Trek The Next Generation was ready to condemn
humanity out of hand. But at least John DeLancie was saying this far you've gone
and no farther. Here like an old testament prophet Keanu Reeves has come to
render final judgment on humanity and how it is messed up the gift of planet
earth.Keanu Reeves was certainly different than Michael Rennie in his interpretation
of alien Klaatu. He's more like Fredric March in Death Takes A Holiday, the
handsome young stranger who brings a promise of destruction. Rennie was a
sophisticated kind of actor and brought that quality to his performance. In
his version he does mix and mingle with humanity and does save us from the
big robot.The robot here is about the size of the Statue Of Liberty much bigger than the
1951 film. His arsenal is mighty and in the climax, positively biblical.I do prefer the 1951 film, but this one is not as bad as folks make it out to be.

So far every review I've read has been negative about this movie. To each-his-own.This movie recreates the same problem (humanity being a threat to the world, itself, and the universe) but gives a better and more mature solution to the problem than the original film.In the 1951 film, the best solution that the writers could come up with was forcing humanity to "behave" under the threat of violence from a force greater than us. The 2008 version of this film gives a much more sophisticated answer: that being the beauty of the human condition and the need for a people to face the "precipice" in order to embrace necessary change.Although this solution may have been better served by not being so overt, it still shows the growth in our thinking. The simple fact that the first version's solution was merely a new threat of violence, while the remake's solutions was to see that the beauty of our human condition makes our existence meaningful, made the remake worthwhile.The role that Jaden Smith played was tremendously annoying. But I think that was the goal. He was the archetype for what mankind is: an annoying, untrusting, and overly-simplistic child-race. Although his sudden change into "maturity" was anything but smooth, he again represented the degree to how abruptly mankind would need to "grow-up" if we ever face similar situations.I think this movie was an amazing look into the ongoing development and maturing of mankind. It shows that even our creative side (Hollywood) has grown up since the original film. It shows that humanity doesn't need a greater threat of violence to make us mature; we merely need to look at the beauty of our human dilemma, and to draw from that strength to grow.Idealistic? Probably. But hey - that's why it's a movie.

The Day The Earth Stood Still is a decently made, well-paced Sci-fi thriller/disaster film. It's based on the acclaimed 1951 sci-fi classic with the same title.After a mysterious shining sphere descending to the Central Park, NY, the whole world starts to panic. A beautiful micro-biologist(Jennifer Connelly) was one of the top scientists sent to investigate the sphere. Not knowing the consequences coming with violence, the army shot at the alien coming out of the sphere. Lately, the alien survived and transformed into the human form for only one purpose--to warn the whole human being...Well, we all know the original film was made during the Cold War, which the film's theme was relevant to. Half a century later, the earth hasn't be destroyed by nuclear weapons but is already saturated with this type of movies, and people are more skeptical than ever before. In my perception, "Alien come to earth for salvation" theme is not fresh anymore, and the movie's concept is very roughly implemented, due to the unconvincing story. Basically the film assumes there are superior life forms from outer-space civilizations, without explaining more about such civilizations. The alien, palely portrayed by Keanu Reeves, carries out his mission without serious sense. He decided that human can't be persuaded and can't change their destructing nature based on how a group of people treated him. Later, he abandoned the prior decision based on the perception of a woman's selflessness to her child. I mean, doesn't he have to investigate more into the human society to make the decision, when the decision is to kill all the human or not? Doesn't he learn enough about mother-son relationship before he "feel" the affection between human before he made the final decision? Doesn't he even learn human philosophy so he would know that what's right about an individual is not necessarily right about the whole society? Or, does he only have the concept of species instead of individual? The movie simply rises more questions like this, draining out energy from the main theme. So, I am sorry but the movie can't convince me at all. I admit the pace is good, the visuals are fine and some performances are nice, but they are all just stylish wrapping outside a hollow concept.It's supposed to be a movie make you think, but it turned out to be a movie make money from you and let you go without being touched.6/10

Could have been a great movie. That kid was so utterly unlovable and unlikeable that he made what could have been a great movie just a likable movie. If at any point in this there had been a gruesome murder scene of that hideous brat, I could have enjoyed this a lot more, but no, he had to live. I guarantee any film starring this awful individual will be a flop. What a dreadful actor and character portrayal.

That kid ruined a movie that might have been okay. There was no reason to constantly hear his wining and back-stabbing. It really ruined a movie that was just hanging onto me by a thread. I really wanted that kid to just die at the end of the movie. Everything about him was awful.The rest of the movie was okay. It should have been much cooler. The 50's version had cutting edge and suspense. This had none of that, plus bad CGI work. How many times have we seen NYC destroyed? We don't need to see that anymore. The "Ship" was very lame. A saucer would have been much better, but anything would have been better that what they picked. The Military people and all were awful.Overall it was mildly entertaining and really felt more like one of those bad Sci-Fi channel movies, bad graphics and all. Get the DVD and just fast forward it every time you see that kid and the movie will be much better.

When a science-fiction movie's location is not space but is earth, also if there is an alien threat, it becomes a nightmare for most of the audiences. At least, I feel this way and I believe so. If you can focus on this movie carefully and if you have no idea about it before, you will enjoy it and you will scare a bit. Many of other critics did not fit my thoughts and I really liked to watch how earth stopped. Especially the ending message is good but could be better if editors would leave it longer. I think many of other fans will wait for it's DVD to see the deleted scenes. Because somethings looks missing in this one. 7/10 Give this one a chance and watch it.

I genuinely don't know why this is 5.5 ? I'd give it a comfortable 7.5Very good remake and Reeves nails his part as the visiting Alien wanting to speak to mankind, surprise part for John Cleese tooI very much enjoyed it and have watched it a number of times over the years (one of those films that you can watch again)Still perplexed by the 5.5 and running out of required word count but
I think it's well worth a watch if you like the sci-fi end of the world happy ending genreNot sure what else to say, I thought it was well made, well acted, good script and certainly worth a watch if you like this genre.

Why do these movies feel they need to include a bratty, spoiled, overbearing kid?? The ridiculous performance of Jaden Smith added annoyance to the empty script.The movie starts off well enough, and then tries miserably to develop the characters and make us care for them. The Bates role is absurd; Cleese's role has virtually nothing to say this amazing encounter. The military point of view is typical; as if there's only one area where the military is useful (I would expect nothing less from "Hollywood").There were some very interesting ideas (the sphere-like ship, the nanobots, the Gort acronym) and the effects were top notch, however Gort (the one thing the movie had going for it) was on screen for less then 10 minutes.Keanu was perfectly cast and Connelly does a good job with what's given to her. All in all, another flop of a remake. This actually makes the War of the Worlds remake shine.I saw this movie in IMAX - if you're going to see it, find an IMAX theater. Lastly, am I the only sick of seeing the same old New York back drop? I love New York City, but come on! Be original!

I went to see this movie The Day The Earth Stood Still (DTESS) with the feeling of wanting to compare this one to the original. I had read many of the comments about this movie and wanted to see for myself what the negative buzz was about. I was tremendously surprised at how much I liked this movie. I think a couple of things may have misled viewers because of the coming attractions of this film. It seems like folks were probably expecting the robot GORT to go around destroying cities and being a general baaaadasss character. But what DTSS turned out to be was a really good sci-fi movie. You have to really pay attention to the dialog to get the full jist of this tricky film. For Klaatu never really has any love or care for humanity. Their goal is to wipe mankind off the face of this planet to allow other forms of life to exist as well as future beings from other worlds. And pay close attention to what he says near the end of the film when he decides to stop humankind's extinction. He said it will cost you something. It's a tricky line, but if you follow it and watch the end of the film you'll understand why the Earth stands still. I won't piece it together for everyone...see if you can figure it out. I love this movie for it's smartness. Many have complained about this being another special effects, mindless mess. It is not. The visuals enhance it...but you really have to think along with the film and sit back an enjoy. (Updated June 06, 2009). The film's ending where Kathy Bates character looks at her watch and sees that it has stopped. Then scenes are shown of trains, cars, boats stopping - suggests to me that the price humanity had to pay for their world being saved was to have all electrical and mechanical devices shut off permanently. Remember that Klaatu doesn't have any real love for the human race but begins to see the possibility of their having compassion. So since it was mankind's machinery that was effecting the planet, the best way to solve this situation without wiping humnity off the planet would be to neutralize all manmade things. Hence the title "The day The Earth Stood Still". I might have it wrong, but that's my take.