The original film The Hunchback of Notre Dame was one of the saddest and most dramatic films ever.  Now, Victor Hugo's original vision is put with color from disney, and it is still dramatic and sad, but it amazingly works into the Dinsey family fold, even if it is erotic, killing and weird. Great fun in voices from Thomas Hulce, Demi Moore, kevin Kline, Tonyt Jay and Jason Alexander as a gargoyle.  One of the better animated films to come around in the 90's.  A+

It's not Hugo, but the Disney version of The Hunchback of Notre Dame (1996) is a wonderful film in its own right. Save for some awkward 1990s CG in the background every now and then, the animation is glorious and the colors are deep and rich like a medieval tapestry. The musical score and numbers are among Disney's most underrated. The characters are all memorable, from the soulful Quasimodo to the kind but tough Esmeralda to the evil Frollo, one of the greatest and most unsung of all Disney villains.Were it not for one factor, this film would be a masterpiece and that is the juvenile humor which creeps into this overall somber and dark movie. The gargoyles are the most obnoxious comic relief possible, and their anachronistic, cartoony nature does not gel with this story of oppression and sin. It's obvious the executives were frightened by the film's darkness, fearful that there wasn't enough kiddie appeal, so they forced this creative mistake upon the filmmakers.It's a shame, but overall, this is still a fine picture.

As enchanting a tale as any told and with plenty to relate to in this modern shallow world built on wealth and looks sadly. The message is clear: be who you are, accept people for what they are, embrace diversity, treat others as you would expect to be treated and above, all revel in the world around you while rejecting prejudice and inequality - break those chains. You really will be so much better off as a result.

A risky wedding of wholesome classic animation, to adult and often dark-themed material. The risk paid off and the result is one of the greatest achievements of Disney Studios.The animation here is first rate and the entire thing is shot like a live-action film with some incredible long shots, great theatrical panning and even at one point, during Quasimodo's song "Out There" a realistic camera flare (I did a double take the first time I saw it!) Hunchback is filled with all sorts of great "tricks" like this. Lighting effects here are nothing short of magnificent – often subtle they sometimes change in an instant dramatically altering the mood of the piece. Frodo's demonic song "Hellfire" is perhaps one the most sinister and frightening moments to emerge from Disney and the animators let loose. The prologue to the movie alone is a minor masterpiece and, like Beauty and the Beast, marvelously prepares us for the whirlwind of a story to take place.The complaints about the singing and dancing gargoyles Victor, Hugo and Laverne, are simply wrongheaded. I read the Hugo classic too, and know they're not in there. What the complainants fail to realize is these gargoyles live only in Quasimodo's imagination. He invented these companions to ease an otherwise tortured, lonely, friendless life. The culmination of all of this becomes obvious in the spectacular song "A guy like you" which finishes with pigeons flying and hearts and banners and ribbons and Quasimodo being celebrated and then BAM immediately upon the conclusion of the final notes, the room becomes the same dark, dank, splintering tower filled with relics, junk and heartbreak. It's one of the movie's most shattering effects. While deserved praise goes to the animators and crew, the voice talent here is, in my opinion, Disney's very best. Tom Hulce goes to the very soul of Quasimodo and gives a performance that is as poignant and shattering as anything he has done (Hulce also happened to be the best Hamlet I've ever seen.) Certain lines ("I am a monster, you know") will ring in my ear forever. Hulce has a beautiful voice and renders "Out there" with such abandon and vigor it makes my hair stand on end. In the quiet "Heaven's light" (which sequences into a stunning shot of the bells frantically ringing the opening theme), Hulce brings a fragility to such lines as "no face as hideous as my face, was ever meant for Heaven's light" that only a heart of stone would not be moved. Switching from pathos to rage, Hulce lets us feel the hidden rage and danger that this character also possesses. It is a truly remarkable performance.Demi Moore, Kevin Kline, Tony Jay, Paul Kandel – and the rest of the cast all sound at the top of their game creating wonderful and vivid characters. Alan Menkin and Stephen Schwartz get to the heart of the matter with score and songs – a sound – that are as integral a part of the telling of this story as the animation and voices. Hunchback is a miracle of a movie!

For sure one of Disney's darker efforts (the hero's mother is murdered on screen in its opening moments), 'The Hunchback Of Notre Dame (1996)' tells the tale of a deformed man forced to live among the bells of Notre Dame by a devout yet merciless judge who manipulates him into believing he is a monster who must remain locked away for his own good. Of course, our hero has a heart of gold and soon finds himself acquainted with a persecuted Roma woman who gives him his first taste of real kindness. The movie deals with difficult themes of disability, discrimination, persecution, racism and genocide. The film's baddie is a real dastardly piece of work; he's legitimately threatening and his actions are some of the most despicable of all of Disney's villains. His aim is to wipe out the entire Roma population of Paris, a desire which is deepened when he finds himself smitten by a dancer (the same woman I referred to earlier) and decides he must either 'have' her or burn her at the stake. The flick is generally more serious and somber than the stuff its studio is typically associated with. That isn't a bad thing, though. The movie is engaging, affecting and sometimes surprising. It's also entertaining right the way through. It isn't consistently downbeat, either. Though its songs aren't all that memorable, they work well enough in the moment and help maintain the narrative's dark atmosphere. It's worth mentioning that the picture does repeatedly - exclusively, even - refer to its Roma characters with a pejorative that I won't repeat here (it's, sadly, still in common use to this day). However, it doesn't feel malicious and the use of this slur is probably period accurate. I can still understand how someone would have an issue with it, though; racial slurs shouldn't be appearing in anything, let alone a Disney movie. Despite this issue, the affair is ultimately a compelling and well-achieved adaptation of its source novel. It's enjoyable and has real stakes to it. It also has a strong underlying message. 7/10

Going into the theater to see this movie, my friend and I (who are "cynical" teenage movie critics) honestly expected to be disappointed, especially after the relatively blah Pocahontas. When the movie was over 90 min. later, we both ran frantically to go buy the CD and read the book (which, actually, was rather different than the movie, but hey.).I am 17 years old; I grew up watching The Little Mermaid and Aladdin. When Disney released this movie, which dealt with extremely heavy subject matter in an extremely tasteful manner, I jumped for joy. During the entire movie, I was amazed and spellbound. The music was also fantastic, by the way, as was the cinematography (although those crowd scenes begin to look really fake after a while). That scene where Quasimodo holds Esmerelda up in front of the rose window and yells, "Sanctuary!" still gives me chills.This is not a movie for children in any way, shape or form. I think the only problem with Hunchback is the fact that Disney refused to accept that this is a serious, relatively adult motion picture and would not make any animated movie, no matter how serious, without obnoxiously cute little critters (i.e., the gargoyles) bouncing around to entertain the kiddies, or huge marketing campaigns at McDonald's, etc. As some others have written on here, it's pretty obvious this movie isn't for kiddies from its subject matter.But anyone over 13 who's willing to think as well as be entertained when watching a Disney movie would probably love Hunchback.

The Hunchback of Notre Dame is a surprise of a pleasant Disney film, in my opinion this is the last real great (hand drawn)animated Disney movie. I was eleven when this film was release and I saw it in the theater, I was just absolutely in love with this film. Still to this day I like watching it. It has such a beautiful story, a bit different from the original Hunchback of Notre Dame book, but they had to make it family friendly. Not to mention that the soundtrack to The Hunchback of Notre Dame is just so beautiful and awesome, the best since The Lion King. This is just such a charming and magical film, I can't see someone not falling in love with it.Quasimodo is a disfigured man who was raised by the evil and cruel Frodo who only keeps him to save himself from eternal damnation. One day Quasimodo goes down to the big fair and bumps into a beautiful gypsy, Esmeralda, who doesn't judge him by his looks but by his charming and kind personality. But when she saves him from the crowd's cruelty, she is a fugitive on the run now, but Quasimodo helps her and falls in love with her. But a new soldier, Phoebus, has also fallen for her and she has for him too, but they all must stick together in order to survive the cruel flames of Notre Dame.The Hunchback of Notre Dame is just such a great film to watch, it's a great family movie for the afternoon. It's such a touching story, it could even bring a few tears to your eyes, and some fun comedy to uplif the story. I loved the old man who is constantly in a trap of some sort and his line every time he gets free "I'm free! I'm free!", then he gets back in the same situation "Dangit!", that was funny. The cast was perfect and seemed to have a lot of fun with their characters. I highly recommend this film, it's a great Disney treasure.9/10

I have not read the book by Victor Hugo, but I do understand that, as the other adaptations of theirs, this has been "Disney-fied", gotten something of a heavy dose of sugar injected, to direct its aim toward children. In spite of this, it's actually quite watchable for those of us who aren't, anymore. The tone has a lot of maturity, and the themes are universal. The plot is very good, well-written and it develops nicely throughout the entire feature. Colors are used effectively. At the same time, the visuals are rather naturalistic and realistic, all the way. The dialog is well-done. The comedy works, and a lot of it is enjoyable to the older audiences, as well. The DVD holds a cute special feature or two, and none of them are bad. The game isn't the best of these Disney DVD games. Casting surprised me, Kline and Moore both suit their parts and as with Gibson in Pocahontas, and much more so, Williams in Aladdin, first-mentioned actor gets some of his recognizable traits transferred to his animated alter ego. Alexander is a lot more tolerable than he was in The Return of Jafar, in fact, he's downright funny, herein. The music isn't bad at all. This has moments of creativity and energy like that of Aladdin, which is still my favorite Disney animated musical. The dramatic portions are effective, and the 3D elements are masterfully done. I recommend this to any fan of Disney's feature-length musical cartoons, young and old alike. 7/10

The 34th animated Disney "classic" is a little better that the earlier "Pocahontas", but still far from being one of the great Disney classics.Although this movie has some great designs and sceneries, in many ways most of the designs haven't got the same creativity or brilliance from the older classics. However, the era when Disney started to go downhill was just beginning, because this was followed by much worst Disney movies. But that's another story...The gargoyles are exaggerated characters. The idea of talking gargoyles is a little too much for me, just like Grandmother Willow (the talking tree from "Pocahontas"). But this isn't the only negative thing about this movie. I dislike some of the humor used on it. Not that there's something wrong with its humor, it's just not very convincing, that's all.I also think that this movie is too dark. This isn't the darkest Disney movie ever, but it is very close to that. Nevertheless, this movie is quite creepy in some parts.The good side of this movie is, for example, the majestic Cathedral of Notre Dame, which is extremely well drawn, causing the same impact as seeing it in reality. The sound of the bells singing is formidable. Some of the songs from this movie are catchy (others not so). Some characters are great, such as Clopin (the puppeteer), Quasimodo, Phoebus (a funny and brave character) and the beautiful gypsy Esmeralda.Also, the moments with Quasimodo and Esmeralda are usually good. The various sceneries and angles of view of both Paris and the Cathedral of Notre Dame are amazing and stunning (including some views of the cathedral from the clouds), which makes them one of the best things about this movie.The evil Minister Claude Frollo is, of course, cruel and hateable, very hateable in fact, but a good villain. Tony Jay makes an even better voice job with Frollo than with Monsieur D'Arque.

Hunchback of Notre Dame is one of the best Disney animated movies ever. It's also one of the darkest. And that's why love it. Best parts: The animation is fantastic. Everything feels grand, huge, and epic. The characters are great, especially the villain, Frollo. He's very intimidating and very complex. The darkest parts, especially Hellfire, make this film unique and very special. I forgot to mention that the choir is AWESOME! It makes everything epic and dark like something from Lord of the Rings. Parts that don't work: The comedy in this movie is hit and miss, and the gargoyles are annoying as heck. If you're a fan of the original Victor Hugo novel, you're probably not going to like it. But I didn't really mind the changes they made, especially the ending where Quasimodo and Esmeralda lives. It's dark, epic, and very unique for a Disney film. I highly recommend Disney's The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

Disney adapts the famous novel by Victor Hugo into their 34th animated feature, telling the story of the lonely, deformed Quasimodo, the secluded bellringer of Notre Dame, who lives by himself in Notre Dame's church towers, with only three stone gargoyles named Victor, Hugo (get it?), and Laverne for company. At the gargoyles' playful urging, Quasi sneaks away from the church one day to attend the Festival Of Fools, and makes his first real human friend in the beautiful gypsy girl, Esmeralda. But soon, after Quasimodo is ridiculed by the crowd for his appearance, he and Esmeralda find themselves in trouble with Quasimodo's wicked stepfather, Frollo, the ruler of Notre Dame. With help from his three gargoyle friends, as well as the kind soldier Captain Phoebus (who has fallen in love with Esmeralda), it's up to Quasimodo to save Esmeralda and the town of Notre Dame itself from Frollo's evil control.... If you've been reading some of my other reviews, then you know by now that I'm a big fan of Disney animated features: "Snow White," "Fantasia," "Tarzan," and "Atlantis," to name but a few (and I do plan on reviewing more Disney films in the future). But now that I've just gotten reacquainted with Disney's 1996 film, "The Hunchback Of Notre Dame," finally released on DVD, I know now beyond the shadow of a doubt that this beautiful animated film is indeed my favorite Disney feature of them all (okay, so "Fantasia" arguably remains the best *animated* of the lot, but it certainly didn't have an actual plot). I don't think I've ever cried so much during a Disney movie. "The Hunchback Of Notre Dame" is, quite simply, a glorious triumph for Walt Disney Productions.Granted, the Disney team have "Disney-ized" Hugo's original novel, such as turning it into a musical, including sidekick stone gargoyles that come to life, as well as the obligatory happy ending, but no matter. This is a truly wonderful animated film through and through that will touch you right down to your very soul. It's very well-written, surprisingly dark at times, gorgeously animated, very funny AND very dramatic at turns, with a first-rate voice cast including Tom Hulce, Demi Moore, Kevin Kline, Tony Jay & Jason Alexander, and beautiful, memorable songs by Alan Menken & Stephen Schwartz. And I promise you, there won't be a dry eye in the house at the film's end, mark my words. HOW, in Heaven's name, did the Academy overlook "Hunchback Of Notre Dame" altogether in 1997? Not even any nominations for the music! Absolutely outrageous. Perhaps with the five previous Disney films in a row being honored by the Academy, from "The Little Mermaid" through "Pocahontas," the Academy simply wanted to take a break from nominating Disney films, not realizing how truly brilliant "The Hunchback Of Notre Dame" was. How very unfortunate that "Hunchback" had to fall victim to the Academy's ignorance that year.Still, it takes nothing away from the remarkable achievement that this Disney film is. Against all the odds, the Disney team transformed Victor Hugo's novel into a truly lovely tale for all ages to enjoy. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll enjoy the music, you'll be moved. Step aside, "Beauty And The Beast"---"The Hunchback Of Notre Dame" is the REAL Disney masterpiece from the last few years.

This film is much intended for a deeper understanding but is also very interesting to interpret.

For some reason, it seems to be impossible for directors to stay true to Victor Hugo's book when making it into a film. I've seen at least 4 adaptations and none of them got the story even halfway right.This one takes the cake though.Not only has the story been changed at every turn (a happy ending? seriously?) but all the main characters have been turned into their exact opposite. Esmeralda, a naive and frail young girl, becomes a confident and witty woman. Quasimodo, in the book an antisocial, mean 18 year old (who is also, inconveniently, deaf - no way Disney would keep that little detail) becomes a cuddly stuffed animal who helps little birds learn how to fly. Claude couldn't possibly stay a priest of course. This isn't really unusual, as far as I know all versions before 1956 either made him a judge or left out his obsession with Esmeralda and Disney is almost always a few decades behind morally. But that they left out almost every redeeming character trait he possesses in the book, that he kills Quasimodo's mother and tries to throw Quasi down a well instead of adopting the monstrous child of unknown origin when everyone else thinks it's a demon, that he doesn't even show a hint of the romanticism that overwhelms him in the last third of the book (when he isn't threatening Esmeralda with death and/or rape that is), that instead of his fierce intellect and curiosity it is the lust for power that dominates his actions, this is unforgivable. And of course, perhaps the most absurd move, as much ridiculous as it is typical of Disney, Phoebus, the insensitive, dumb, opportunistic soldier who gets way more attention than he deserves due to his good looks, becomes the knight in shining armor - literally!That being said, some of the scene were actually very intense and well-crafted. When liquid fire was running out of every hole of the cathedral, when Claude was hunting Quasimodo's mother through snow-covered Paris to a choir singing "Dies Irae", the song "Hellfire", these were the moments when the film, despite all its alterations, came pretty close to the dramatic and dark atmosphere of the book.All in all I would say this is indeed the best film version of "Notre Dame de Paris" - as the book was originally called, without much focus on the hunchback, who in the book is only the 4th most important character - mainly because the other version are pretty bad.One last thought: When I first watched the film, my reaction was: Talking gargoyles? Really? But then it occurred to me: The gargoyles aren't actually becoming alive for their friend Quasimodo, Disney in its dark cynicism made the poor, lonely Quasimodo imagine things to cope with his pain. His psyche is wounded by the constant ostracism and the emotional torture at Claude's hands to the point where it desperately makes up friends to gain at least some feeling of being loved. This is so wonderfully twisted. I have to watch the film again to check whether any of the other characters actually interact with the gargoyles and if yes, how much ambiguity there is in these scenes.