When i first saw The Godfather Part III with Coppola commentaries and he said that he want the film to be called The Death of Michael Corleone and it was a epilogue, even with him saying that he wanted to make a fourth one, being about a Younger Don Corleone at the time of World War II, and intercalating with Vincent Mancini who has become the new Don Corleone and will bring destruction to the family, but after Mario Puzo death, Coppola decided to don't go on with the project, the point is, the two original films that are basically one big movie, they are the major story and the third one being called The Death of Michael Corleone, is a much better title.But judging this version of the film, this new editing took it off some key moments, they make a beginning that looks more like the one from 1972, repositioned scenes throughout the movie, for example the first scene of this new version only happens at the 39 mins of the original version, and the ending also took it off a lot of the emotional weight, when they don't show other memories of Michael's life, and about the death scene of the 1990 version, in this one he don't actually die, it is more like the death of who the character was, so to conclude, i prefer the original from 1990.

Having heard the endless amount of critique and insults that the last part of the Godfather saga carries.. I have to disagree. Although people seem to love to hate Sophie Coppola and say she ruined the film, I think her part alone wasn't that frail it'd ruin the entire cinematic experience. Saying that is just humorous. Also, the absence of Tom Hagen played by Robert Duvall is really a loss and even I think this film would've been a lot better if there was him in it.. but he got too greedy and couldn't make it into the movie, and that's that. I'm not going to judge a movie by what it could have been, but what it is and how good it ends up being.Despite some shortcomings, Godfather Part 3 is a decent ending to the trilogy. While it may have been an attempt to cash off the audience, they still have Coppola bring us his finest directing. I found Al Pacino's performance extremely satisfying and even terrifyingly so. He embodies the mistakes and losses of his life with excellent skill, showing us a don that has lost his health, the loved ones of his life and even the respect for himself. While I never found Diane Keaton's performances in the saga that good, she still fills the spot required, same goes for Talia Shire, whose role in the ending finale of the film really came as a surprise to me - which was a good thing. I didn't find her role in Part 2 too appealing but in this one she has more character, more importance. Sophie Coppola was OK, like I said a lot of people have complained about her acting skills and I gotta admit she was a little "stiff" or sorts in some scenes but it's not notable all the time and it didn't spoil any moods for me. Andy Carcia was just excellent, my favorite add to the saga cast, playing the son of his father with excellence.So, umm.. this film is perfectly fine. The ending finale was tremendously well shot and very climatic, filled with a lot of excitement. I'm telling you this movie is a great ending to the saga even because of that one particular scene so just go see it, despite what a lot of people have said about, badmouthing it for faulty reasons.. it brought a tear into my eye. It did.

The Godfather Part three is a great movie but many would contest. This final installment of the greatest trilogy ever made is misunderstood by most because they do not see what this film is really about. G3 is  not about hits and gangland killings, but rather, G3 is about the end of Michael Corleone's legacy of crime in America. This movie shows him stepping out of the gambling and the other rackets because they have hurt him so badly. This movie is a masterpiece because it shows the conclusion to an incredible story. There had to be an end to this trilogy and this thoughtful way to do it exemplified the trilogy as an unbeatable one. Just because it doesn't end with a violent scene like the murder of the heads of the 5 families does not make it a bad movie, but in this case, a beautiful one. Please, don't feel you have to agree with the common view by proxy, but think on your own about what this movie really means and how it concludes and consequences the first two.

The Godfather: Part III is a good movie with a reasonably well developed plot and a terrific cast. It certainly stands out on its own, Al Pacino shines as Michael Corleone here, being his first time playing the character in 16 years, it is as if he never left the role. Francis Ford Coppola's direction is still on point, though the writing may not feel as passionate, he still manages to bring the world to life in s splendid manner, the only way he knows how. The dialogue and overall story is far less inspired than the previous two, it never manages to make much of an impact. Having no Vito Corleone in this one was a big loss, I understand that his story came to a close in the second film, but he was the heart and soul, as well as the highlight, of these movies, there was a gaping whole without him. I was not a fan of Andy Garcia's character, merely a repeat of the same type of role Pacino had in the first Godfather, but never as effective. While its flawed and certainly not a pleasing finale to the trilogy, The Godfather: Part III is still a must watch for fans of the first two, you might as well form your own opinion of it. Michael Corleone confesses his sins while trying to legitimize his business to keep his family safe as he ages. Best Performance: Al Pacino / Worst Performance: Sofia Coppola

¿Why there is not The Godfather CODA as an standalone tittle in this platform?Such as Justice League and Zack Snyder's Justice League. There is no big difference between the two, but Coda was generally received better.Personally, I prefer Coda and I think it gives a more proper ending to one of the best movie trilogies of all time. Giving emphasis on the metaphorical dead of Michael Corleone, instead of his physical one.While I still prefer the original ending, this version is better overall and make us wonder what would've been of it if they gave Coppola the time he demanded to make a better film...

I was extremely excited to see the new cut of The Godfather Part III. I bought a digital copy. As I was seeing the movie, I could barely notice any changes.By the trailer of this movies, I was led to believe that Sofia Coppola's role was going to be drastically cut; that was not the case. As you probably now, her acting has been the biggest point of contention against Part III.After the movie ended, I felt that I was cheated. The differences in The Godfather Part III and The Godfather Coda are just too small to make a big deal out of them. I was expecting to see a big improvement that take this movie closer to the level of the first two parts, but was very disappointed.

"The Godfather III" is a beautiful film, visually wonderful, and of great importance, completing the tragic saga of the Corleone family... They are so tempting these Byzantine intrigues: Alliances betrayed with violence; assassins dressing up as priests; knives and poison invading the opera house; someone, in the deepest shadows, always whispering devious means...Coppola's intention was clearly aimed at offering a story of redemption... Nominated for 7 Academy Awards, the motion picture reflects Coppola's masterful film-making... Fascinating threads of continuity support this illusion: The bridesmaid (Jeannie Linero) who had a hurried meeting with Sonny in the first film, now makes a significant appearance as the mother of a vibrant new character, a suitable successor of Michael, the Godfather of the future Vincent Mancini (Andy Garcia).Vincent, strong, focused and loyal, shares his father's hot temper... He is the most suitable heir to the family business... His desire for a life of crime is driven by his greater desire to destroy a vile thug named Joey Zasa beautifully played by Joe Mantegna...Connie (Talia Shire), tries to push her brother to take Vincent under his tutelage... Eventually Michael—a man haunted by the death of Fredo, his separation from his wife, his estrangement from his children—realizes that he can never truly leave his life of crime... We feel his frustration when he says, "Just when I think I'm out, they pull me back in."Worried about his children and the fate of his empire, Michael is torn between two characters: his warm-hearted daughter Mary (Sophia Coppola), whom he loves very much, and Vincent, who sees the death of his enemies as the only answer to every question... There is also Kay (Diana Keaton), still the woman he loves, and the mother of his dear children... Family is crucial to Michael... His children are his reason for living... In his words: "The only wealth in this word is children... They are my treasure."Michael wants Anthony to be a lawyer... Kay defends their son's aspiration to be an opera singer... The best scenes in the movie are between this lovely couple, passionately fastened in a struggle that started a time ago at that wedding party where an innocent officer and a gentleman told his non Italian girlfriend, he was not part of his family business...The film has a great ensemble of supporting actors: Talia Shire, deliciously evil, and always counseling her nephew on how to get in Michael's good graces; Eli Wallach, the talented peacemaker with a stone in his shoe; Raf Vallone, the wise true priest; Franc D'Ambrosio, the artist, the voice in "Cavalleria Rusticana;" Donal Donnelly, the fallen archbishop; George Hamilton, the family attorney; Helmut Berger, the missing God's Banker; Richard Bright who heads to Rome to "light a candle for the archbishop;" Franco Citti, the old bodyguard; Mario Donatone, the "Ace in the hole;" Bridget Fonda, the sexy reporter; Al Martino, the Hollywood singing idol; and John Savage, the priest with an assignment in Italy...Brilliant shots and unforgettable sequences:The opening sequence in which the camera travels over the wreckage of the Corleone's vacation house by the lake...The helicopter attack upon Michael and a group of old dons through the skylight of a hotel banquet room in Atlantic City, New Jersey..The trap and killing of a "small-time enforcer" on the streets of 'Little Italy' by a fake cop...The beautiful scene in which a kindly cardinal hears the confession of a penitent, desperate for absolution...Anthony dedicating a sweet song to his father ("Brucia La Terra"), and while Michael was listening to the melody, he was remembering his first beautiful and wonderful bride...The natural scenery of Sicily...The spectacular opera house finale that turns Michael's expectations into an inferno of mob violence...The cry that lets out that night on the stairway... The penalty... The terrible sentence...Coppola's first two Godfather-films are a work of art... More famous for their superb acting and deep character studies, beautiful photography and choreography, authentic recreation of the period, and rich score..."The Godfather III" is a mesmerizing film worthy to be taken on its own terms... It lays the seeds for a complex financial scandal involving the Vatican Bank as well as the mysterious death of Pope John Paul I in 1978...

Michael Corleone has sold his illegal business in an attempt to win back his family.  However he must still contend with up and coming mobsters such as Vincent, who wants to work for him and Joey Zasa, who wants to fully take over the Corleone family's territory.  When the Corleone family begin to deal with the Vatican and plan to buy out their share of an multinational corporation he finds that the Vatican is just as corrupt as his illegal operations were.  Despite his best efforts he finds himself sucked back into the world he has tried to leave behind.Easily one of the most hated films ever made – or at least you'd think it was by the critical mauling it got for a raft of reasons.  However watching it now it isn't that bad and really it only suffers from comparison with the two films before it.  But lets be fair, Coppola has made 3 or 4 of the best films ever made – did we really expect another one from him?The film has a reasonable plot and brings the trilogy to a logical end.  The plot however does have it's weaknesses – for example it starts well with Michael's attempt to `get out' being hampered by other families on their way up.  But when it starts to get involved with money laundering through the Vatican and the corruption therein, it starts to lose it's way and it's focus on Michael.The main weakness comes in the characters.  Would Michael really go straight just to get his family back – and how come he managed to do it so easily up till the time of the film?  Worse still is Connie who seems to have become some sort of Mafia widow when that was not part of her character in the previous films – would she really have got that twisted or influential? Little problems like these just bugged me and they also fed into the performances.For such a great cast the acting was very average.  Pacino is good but I sensed he didn't see Michael turning out this way and he didn't convince occasionally.  Keaton has little to do and again I felt that her approach to Michael was too forgiving, although maybe I'm not allowing for time.  As I Siad before Shire was doing some sort of `Bride of Frankenstein' act as Connie and I didn't buy it for a moment.  Garcia was OK and faces like Wallach, Hamilton and the like helped.  The two worst performances were sadly two of the main ones.  First Joe Mantegna…..now it wasn't that it was bad – it was more that I've seen him do so much better.  Here all I could think of when I watched him was how his character and his acting was very like his Simpsons' character of ` Fat Tony'.  Bare in mind Fat Tony is meant to be a spoof of the Mafioso characters and you'll see why I didn't like it.The worse performance was Sofia Coppola.  Now she was vilified at the time for her role – a bit unfairly and cruelly but she was still bad.  She has this strange scowl on her face for most of the film and she acts like a spoil little girl.  She also has no realism in her voice and speaks in the same constant tone – that Vincent would fall for her was just a leap of faith too far to accept.  The cast does have others who are unused or underused – Fonda being the best example.  Why did she bother with that role!?Overall, this is miles behind the other two Godfathers and it has plenty of weaknesses.  However at it's heart it's a good try as the concluding part and the story is watchable.  It's not bad, it just is average and it feels like the director and large sections of the cast felt they just had to turn up to make a third classic film.

I've heard a lot of debate about this movie and how it's worse than the other two. But why the hell should that mean that it's not good. This part is horribly underrated and should be given the same energy and attention as the first two movies. I don't suppose that the death of Corleone would be the best of the first two, which is building up and showcasing each of the characters. I'm not gonna lie, Sophia's character kinda ruined it for me. Her performance was exceptional. I'm not criticizing the actor but I can't say I liked the character much. But maybe that was the point of it all. Al Pacino is so good at portraying Michael Corleone and there was no actor in the world that could have done it better than him. The ending of this movie had me in tears, literally snot everywhere and clenching on to the pillow for dear life. The end of The Godfather trilogy had me crying for days, but there was no better way to end it than they did.

It's a bit like musical chairs, except when you're out, you get a bullet in the snout, or where you pout, or just anywhere really, they're not too fussy, although it must get a little messy, with all the blood and guts and bits and stuff. It's amazing anyone has the nerve to sleep, as round every corner an assassin seems to peep, I mean you can't get by without a bit of kip, but knowing the mortal coil could at any moment slip, I think I'd be inclined to make a runner and disappear, but they always seem to find you, or so it seems to appear, but I reckon I could make a good escape, put on a cape, a mask, a wig, maybe grow a beard and moustache. At least I wouldn't be perpetually attending a funeral every week, or maybe every day, twice a day - you just don't know how lucky you are!!!I fondly remember Edward G. Robinson films being better than this, Jimmy Cagney even, George Raft was the best mob villain by a country mile.

"The Godfather Part III" isn't really a necessary sequel, and to be truthful it's not really one of the best sequels in recent memory, but is it a bad film? No. In fact, had it not been for the extraordinary first two films, I firmly believe this movie would have been hailed as an epic; but due to such a broad expanse of years from the second film (1974) to this one (1990), audiences were given too much time to work up extreme expectations, especially with the major success of the first sequel. Many people just expected another equal sequel. It's just a good sequel.Al Pacino returns to his role of Don Michael Corleone, much older since we last saw him and with a daughter (Sofia Coppola, Francis' daughter). He is still split from his (ex)-wife, Kay (Diane Keaton), and Tom Hagen (Robert Duvall) has since passed to the other side, though rumors have it his character was originally in Ford and Mario Puzo's script, only to be dumped when Duvall turned down the script because he believed Pacino was getting too much attention. (Though I have my doubts over the accuracy of that rumor.)Michael wants out of the Mafia. He wants to work legitimate. He's been trying to turn his business into legit dealings for a while now, and he realizes that the sins of his past will never completely go away. He decides to hand the reigns of power over to his ex-brother Fredo's son (Andy Garcia), a young, eager soul with energy and excitement. But things do not go so well. Michael tries to be a mentor to his trainee but it is a difficult task. Michael goes through turbulent times, not to mention that he must deal with his daughter falling in love with the future head of the family (they're cousins, which, when you think about it, is just plain nasty).Michael tries to get his son interested in becoming the head of the family, but he will have no part of it. He is bent on becoming an opera singer, to turn from his family's past and ignore his father's pleads. Michael is left with some difficult choices, and we see that all the power in the world can't control the inevitable."The Godfather Part III" has its flaws. One of them is the casting of Michael's daughter with Coppola's daughter - she has, one might say, no acting ability whatsoever. Garcia is bright and talented, and fits the part he is playing. Pacino isn't quite as energetic and powerful as he was in the first two films, in fact he looks pretty tired here, but I believe that's the point.Some people really hate this film. I thought it was quite good. It's a good continuation, though I do not hesitate to admit it could have been much better. The film seems a bit corny at times, and there are some bad casting choices, one of which I have already mentioned above. But it is an entertaining film, one that no "Godfather" fan should go without seeing. It's a worthy (hopefully) last installment, one that gives more of the same but still manages to hold the audience's interest.There are rumors flying everywhere of yet another "Godfather" entry, but quite honestly I think it's a bad decision. They should leave the series as it is and move on to other projects. Puzo is dead. Coppola hasn't made a good film in years - heck, he hasn't even produced a good film in years. Al Pacino's character would be hard to bring back, and if you've seen this film you know what I'm talking about. A prequel would just be messy and unexplained, not to mention confusing. To follow Andy Garcia's character would seem pointless - some things should be left to our imagination. I doubt as to the importance of another sequel, as it would, at this point, just be a cash-in.The script by Coppola and Puzo is interesting, but it seems too try a bit too hard to be an epic at times. It just serves as a reminder that this film was not needed as an intallment in the series. "The Godfather Part" was great, "The Godfather Part II" was superb, "The Godfather Part III" is probably the best film of 1990. Which, looking back at twenty years from now, probably won't amount to a hill of beans. But it's a start.4.5/5 stars -John Ulmer

Sophia Coppola delivers the most wooden, expressionless performance I have ever seen. She is absolutely devoid of talent. I am sure that the fact that her father is the director had nothing to do with it.

The Godfather Trilogy may have reached its end with The Godfather: Part III. But was there enough room to allow for yet another film based on another generation of the Corleones? Time and public demand will only tell.I liked The Godfather: Part III right up to and including Sofia Coppola's much maligned performance as Mary Corleone daughter of Don Michael Corleone, the one and only Al Pacino. I think she was unjustly criticized. In her performance she set out to play one of the innocent children of Al Pacino. There's a moving scene in The Godfather where we saw Al Pacino and Marlon Brando talking for the last time. Brando's hopes were for his son to become Governor Corleone, Senator Corleone to attain that level of respectability that was out of the Don's reach. Pacino tells him, maybe the next generation.Flash forward to the late seventies where Pacino has slowly divested himself of the illegal interests of the Corleone family. But the other crime bosses don't like the idea of him going completely legitimate. He also has some opposition within his own family. His surviving sibling Talia Shire thinks he ought to keep a hand in and his illegitimate nephew, Andy Garcia is having a running feud with another family head, Joe Mantegna.Andy Garcia got the only acting nomination for The Godfather: Part III as Sonny's son out of wedlock. And he's every bit as wild and hot tempered as Sonny was from The Godfather. Garcia brings a lot of passion to the part. But he does prove able to learn from his uncle and eventually not repeat the mistakes of his father. Garcia lost to another hoodlum portrayal, Joe Pesci for Goodfellas for Best Suppporting Actor.Probably Al Pacino has gotten all he could out of the character of Michael Corleone. He's gotten real respectability now, he's been conferred with a Papal Knightship for the good works of the Corleone Foundation now. He's high up the criminal world too. But people and circumstances won't let those worlds mix and as he ruefully remarks, "just when I think I'm out, they drag me back in again."Only four characters made it through the three Godfather films, Al Pacino, Diane Keaton, Talia Shire, and Richard Bright as Al Neri. All except Neri seem to grow in character, Neri is still button man in chief since Lucabrazzi started sleeping with the fishes in The Godfather. Keaton's character is still the outsider. Separated from Pacino in The Godfather: Part II, she still loves him and regrets as much as he has the outside forces that caused their separation.Although Talia Shire got an Oscar Nomination for Best Supporting Actress in The Godfather: Part II, I think she really comes into her own in this one. Had it not been for male chauvinism implicit in the Sicilian culture, she'd be taking over the family business from Pacino. She's changed so dramatically over the course of the three films. In The Godfather she's the innocent daughter about to embark on marriage to a wife beater. In The Godfather: Part II, she's now entering middle age, overindulging in excesses, unhappy as a many time married widow, her first husband being killed in the original Godfather. She lives on the sufferance and tolerance of her brother. Now in The Godfather: Part III she takes an active interest in the family business and the family legacy. She realizes more than Pacino there's no escaping the Corleone roots. She champions Garcia as the new Don, she knows he's got the chops for the job, she hopes he can develop the smarts as does Pacino.Eli Wallach contributes a fine performance as another aging crime Don who's got a lot more to him than when we first meet him. Raf Vallone plays Pope John Paul I and the urban legend of his sudden demise after a one month papacy is woven into the Corleone story. As is Joe Mantegna who plays an undisguised version of Brooklyn mob boss Joe Columbo.I'm sure if the money's right and a workable screenplay is developed we may not have seen the last of the Corleones. There was one talked about a few years ago. Still if it never develops, The Godfather: Part III is a fine film to end the saga.

After its two excellent predecessors, this is bitterly disappointing. None of the various story lines are terribly interesting and I think that the kissing cousins plot was a dreadful idea. The best parts of the film are the scenes between Al Pacino and Diane Keaton, who play the tense relationship between Michael and Kay very well, but their performances are not on the same level as in the first two films. This would not have been a major problem if the film had been better but it places far too much reliance on the previous films to the point that it is difficult to fully understand or even care about the characters and events if you are not familiar with them. I wasn't very interested in the idea of Michael's quest for redemption but could have been handled far better. The film was nominated for Best Picture but I don't think that it deserved to be. It felt more like someone else trying to emulate the "Godfather" films than a true "Godfather" film itself. For instance, the intertwining of the killings with the opera performance was a failed attempt to recreate the brilliant baptism scene of the first film. At 2 hours and 50 minutes, it was far too long and very badly paced. Honestly, my favourite line in the film is when Joey Zasa says, "And we got Don Ameche, who played the guy that invented the telephone" since Ameche is one of my all time favourite actors.The best newcomers are the always brilliant Eli Wallach, Joe Mantegna and Donal Donnelly. George Hamilton and Bridget Fonda are wasted. Robert Duvall's absence is extremely noticeable and Andy Garcia, who is not a very good actor, is just forgettable as Vincent. Sofia Coppola's performance as Mary Corleone is pretty horrific but much of the blame has to be attributed to her father Francis Ford Coppola for casting her. He should have been able to see that she could not act to save her life. One of her lines - delivered atrociously - is "Dad, why are you doing this to me?" I'd have said the same thing in real life if I were her. Coppola's well known propensity for nepotism proved successful in the casting of his sister Talia Shire in this trilogy - she has more screen time in this film than the first two combined but far less interesting material, incidentally - and his nephew Nicolas Cage in "Peggy Sue Got Married". However, after Winona Ryder dropped out of this film, it would have probably been a good idea if he looked for an actress outside of his immediate family to replace her. Overall, this is not a dreadful or even a particularly bad one. It's just dull. However, I don't think that this is a film that needed to be made. This is the weakest final entry in a film trilogy that I have ever seen. It's certainly for the best that "The Godfather Part IV" was never made.