Certainly this Universal remake is more in the vain of Indiana Jones rather than the original Mummy.  It is high on adventure and comedy, and wins because of it.  The sets, scenery, special effects are all first-rate.  The film is fast-paced from beginning to end and is very suspenseful.  Stephen Sommers again shows his talent as a director for creating action-packed adventure with a high level of comedic overtones.  The cast are all very good in their roles, yet none of them seem really to be taking themselves or the film too serious.  Brendan Fraser is an affable hero, and Rachel Weisz makes a good heroine.  Good support comes from John Hannah, Kevin J. O'Connor, and the mummy, Arnold Vosloo.  Also a real treat was seeing Bernard Fox in a small role as an aging British pilot.  Don't expect the old mummy of lore in this one, but sit down and have one heck of a ride...a rollercoaster of hijinks in the sands of Egypt.

Just wanted to say - this movie still holds up in 2022. Even though this is coming from a 90's baby, with nostalgia and memories from our childhood in mind, this is still such a great
movie.Acting is good, wonderful cast. Both protagonists and antagonists really made you feel specifically about them, sowing no doubt in your mind who is who. But, it does feature some tropes from the era - the music, the "let's stand still and look at people being devoured" , the over the top action sequences and Michael Bay style explosions, and many more .But, would definitely recommend this movie to anybody up for a good couple of flashbacks and a generally good watch!

First off, everyone is entitled to their own opinions, but most of the low ratings I am seeing are criticizing "The Mummy" because of it's "weak plot" or someone even said that this movie could have been written by the person's dog!Does anyone realize that there is different movie genres? If you go to see "The Mummy" and expect to see "The Departed", "The Godfather", or "Shawshank Redemption" then yes, of course you will be disappointed. This is not a drama, it's an action/adventure movie! Everyone has commented on the fun of this movie, that is what this movie is all about! Personally, I think the story is very good, and interesting. There is a lot to like here: it has elements of action, adventure, comedy, fantasy, mythology, horror, and tells a pretty well made tale (seriously, how many movies manage to pull all of these things off? And pull them off well!). And, it manages to do all of this in style, with amazing special effects and action sequences. No, it's not perfect (what movie is?) but this movie kills most movies in the same genre! I have never seen a movie that can contain so many different elements while still being coherent. This movie is a technical marvel is many aspects!Rachel Weisz is great and looks beautiful as well playing as Evelyn. Yes, she is something like a "typical damsel in distress", but she brings humor, intelligence, and a strong will to the part. It's hard to integrate so many qualities into a believable character, but she does it well.Brendan Fraser as Rick O'Connell: After seeing him in so many goofy movies, playing an equally goofy character, I thought he was always going to be cast in lame movies such as "Encino Man" and "Monkeybones". He was the reason why I had doubts I would like the movie because I could not picture him being more than a one-dimensional actor (able to pull goofy-charismatic off only). Not only does he act the part with stride, but he nails every aspect of his character: He is cool, yet has humor and he really surprised me with how much depth he can add to a role that really doesn't need it! Rick O'Connell wields his dual guns with flair, and I will never doubt Fraser again! I just hope they keep him utilized more and more like this. I was really impressed with him most because he surpassed all expectations!Everyone else did their parts extremely well, they always stay in character, and add to the elements of the story. This movie has a lot to offer, and lots of different ways to get your interest, especially if the Ancient Egyptian mythology fascinates you. This movie does have elements of horror: it will most likely scare younger kids more than adults, but putting yourself in the characters places you would be quite afraid. Imhotep is very scary, mostly because of all the different abilities he possesses, as well as forms he can take. I could not recommend this movie enough, especially if you have a HDTV and have the High Definition version, you will be blown away! Just don't expect a character driven drama, you're not looking for that with this either!

This was one of the "low-brain-but-so-damn-entertaining"- type of films. "The Mummy" was an action packed adventure flick with great humor and nice special effects (The Mummy itself could have been better though). I enjoyed every moment with this one. There was no boring parts and Brendan Fraser makes a great performance as the Indiana Jones wannabe (HEH! JOKE!!). Lot of big time effects nice action, very funny jokes and nice GROOVE!!7/10

I will have to say that "Mummy" was an action adventure film in the spirit of "Raiders of the Lost Ark". I know there have been other attempts over the years, but "The Mummy" comes the closest to hitting the mark."The Mummy", directed by Stephen Sommers, is the story of librarian and aspiring archaeologist Evelyn (Rachel Wiesz), accompanied by her brother Jonathan (John Hannah), enlisting the help of French Foreign Legion soldier Rick O'Connell (Brendan Fraser) to find a lost Egyptian city. I prefer not to say more as this type of plot is best when the story unfolds before you.Sommers directing is fast paced. There is never a dull moment, never a talky interlude to break the tone of the action. Every scene in the film is necessary for the plot advancement. Director Sommers knows an inherent part of any action film is to keep the camera moving. There are very few "static shots".The special effects, by ILM, are fantastic. I was hooked from the opening sweeping shot of a bustling city in ancient Eygpt, beautifully recreated.Brendan Fraser is a very credible action hero. As Rick O'Connell, he has such a clumsy, boyish charm you can't help but like him. With a half smile and his perchant for the understatement ("You brought a new friend back from the desert, didn't you Beni?"), he is almost the equal of Harrison Ford's Indiana Jones. Rachel Weisz is wonderful as the aspiring archaeologist Evelyn and John Hannah is fun as her near do well missionary brother Jonathan. Kevin J. O'Conner as scared of his own shadow Beni (I won't reveal what his role is in the story) is delightful.What keeps this film from being the equal of "Raiders of the Lost Ark" is the lack of character curve. Unlike Indiana Jones, who learned the hard way to respect powers he can't touch or see, I can't think of anything any of the characters in "The Mummy" learned.However, "The Mummy" is still rip-roaring entertainment. Sommers and Executive Producer Kevin Jarre (screenwriter, "Glory") wisely created a film with an emphasis on action. They must have figured (rightly so) that any story about the Mummy presented to 1999 audiences would just not be scary, so the tone was changed to action/adventure.Action films greatly rely on the ability to make the audience believe that what they see is possible within the first five to ten minutes. If this doesn't happen, the viewer will have a poor experience for the rest of the film. Most action films cannot achieve this. They "shoot their bolt" too early, rendering the rest of the film unbelievable. Also, the closer an action film is to related reality, the more difficult this becomes. Like "Raiders of the Lost Ark" (still my all time favorite action film), "The Mummy" allowed me to suspend my disbelief within the first ten minutes.

This version of The Mummy (one of the several titles within film lore that seems to have been made and remade for decades) is pretty much exactly what you would expect from a modern adaptation of an old horror classic, especially given the types of films that are released these days. The action and special effects of the 1932 classic have been massively increased, and the new film turns more to shocking special effects, often cheesy comic relief, and sparkling scenery, away from the slow, creeping tension of the original. As a result, we get a fast moving feature that places a lot of emphasis on its special effects and it's good-looking stars. Thankfully, the movie knows when to laugh at itself, but it trips because it doesn't know when to stop.The film starts roughly 3000 years in the past, with the Egyptian priest Imhotep being put to a rather vicious death for getting a little too friendly with the Pharaoh's mistress. Naturally, he is mummified alive, sealed in a coffin with a lot of flesh-eating beetles (the sounds of which make up some of the creepiest stuff in the whole movie), only to be accidentally resurrected by a lot of bounty hunters a few millennia later. This is where the cast comes in, Rick (Brendan Fraser), Evelyn (Rachel Weisz), and her brother Jonathan (John Hannah).Rick is the hero of the movie, the guy who has been there and done it all and just wants to get his money and get out. He's kind of like a cross between the single-mindedness of Han Solo, the bad one-liners of James Bond, and the adventure experience of Indiana Jones, except that he comes across more as a muddy conglomeration of characters like those rather than an original character of his own. He goes through his part upset by the fact that other people seem to be constantly be holding him back from some faraway goal, the importance of which they can probably never be expected to understand. Evelyn is there mainly with scientific interest (until she meets the hottie hero and romance is added to her To Do list) and her brother Jonathan is there for pure financial gain, as is the movie's director and crew and production team. There is also a tagalong character named Beni who I can only satisfactorily describe as a greedy rat, someone you would expect to meet on the wet streets of New York in the 1940s or something. He is a constant double-crosser who never has anyone's but his own best interest in mind, and so naturally ends up working for the resurrected Imhotep. His weird eye-makeup and pathetically whiny little voice make him a perfect candidate for the throwaway antagonist, who Rick tries vainly to save in a climactic scene near the end of the film. The interesting thing about the plot comes up when you consider when exactly Imhotep became the bad guy. Really, all he did was fall in love with the wrong girl, and then when he was brought back to life, obviously he wanted to bring her back, too. One of the first things that I learned in film studies is that the audience should know as soon as possible whether they are meant to like or dislike a character, because first impressions are difficult to overcome. With that in mind then, when exactly was it that he went from the poor love-struck protagonist from the first act of the film to the monstrous antagonist during the rest of the movie?My best theory is that first and foremost, he's killing people to bring himself and his love back to life. Granted, more killing would not justify the death of himself or of his loved one, Anck Su Namun, but considering the fact that all he did was fall in love and also considering the way that he was put to death, his reaction upon achieving life once more becomes a little more understandable. Second, what exactly does a resurrected protagonist look like? I must admit that there is something a little too daunting about trying to come up with a likable mummy, but Imhotep is certainly a man who has seen more than his share of suffering.The special effects are hugely impressive despite the fact that they are obviously special effects (the art of invisibility was not achieved very well here). When Imhotep is slowly regenerating, there are scenes showing his body and face that are impressive in their spectacle, but not impressive in not looking animated. As a whole, The Mummy is exactly what you might expect it to be, except that it was released amidst so much excitement and hype that it really should have taken itself more seriously and been more of a thinking film. It would have, under those circumstances, been immensely more respectable and might have joined its predecessor as a movie classic. It is a successful update of the Mummy theme (which has become almost a genre in itself), but there is a lot of fluff in the film that simply doesn't belong.

The Mummy is a funny movie, without presumption. The cast is well-chosen, the script is ironic and The Mummy with Karloff (obvious comparison) is enough far: more dramatic and evocative. A different thing!

It seems like a long time ago when this came out, but I remember it being the first DVD I had ever bought sight unseen, meaning I had never seen the film in the theater. I was pleased. I got what I had hoped for: a fun, special-effects extravaganza. In fact, if you read a number of reviews, you see the word "fun" more than anything. That best describes this film.This was an Indiana Jones-Jason And The Argonauts combination adventure story. It's cartoon-like in nature with an absurd swashbuckling hero, outlandish action scenes and the occult theology that filmmakers love so much. (The Mummy has God-like powers, even producing Old Testament plagues.)However, the film isn't all good news. It's too long by about 10-15 minutes and there is simply too much action and too much noise. The film needs more lulls.Brendan Fraser is pretty good as the Indiana Jones figure and Rachel Weisz, a new face at the time, makes a solid impression in her debut. The DVD offered a sharp picture which highlighted a number of jaw-dropping scenes. It's pure escapist fun and not meant to be anything else.

There's no doubt the movie business can be an unpredictable affair at times. In 1998 Stephen Sommers wrote and directed a disaster/monster feature with fairly rich comic undertones to it. It was called Deep Rising and it tanked (despite this writer liking it) fairly spectacularly, though it has gone on over the years to achieve a degree of cult status.Now for some writer.directors that commercial failure may have represented the kiss of death. But in this case, not for Stephen Sommers. A year later Universal Pictures almost doubled his budget from Deep Rising and let him go and make what was almost the same sort of film again. Go figure. At any rate their intuition proved to be correct. Sommers remake of The Mummy, turning it from a horror film into a tongue-in-cheek action adventure proved this time to be a commercial master stroke and franchise starter. Sommers and Universal had an international hit on their hands.What changed? Superficially heaps, but intrinsically, not a great deal. Both films deal with monsters, The Mummy less mysteriously. The obvious differences are the settings. Deep Rising is water-bound; largely set on a disaster-afflicted cruise liner amidst a storm tossed ocean. Being set in the burning sands of the Eygptian desert (with Morocco substituting), The Mummy does appear worlds apart.But really Sommers just cleverly tinkers with his Deep Rising template, refines a few odds and ends and voila! ... finds out he has a hit on his hands.The Mummy ramps up the humour quotient and eases back a little on the gore/horror elements of Deep Rising. Kevin J. O'Connor moves from being a comic side kick in DR to being a comic villain in TM. John Hannah, comfortably fits into the comical shoes of Jonathan Carnahan, the new bumbling side kick. Arguably the main reason for the The Mummy's success lies in the lead pairing of Brendon Fraser and Rachel Weisz. They have real onscreen chemistry and Weisz, as airy, but also feisty and smart librarian Evelyn Carnahan, proves she has the comedic talents to match those, we already knew of Fraser. Unlike Deep Rising, where the leads didn't meet up till the second half, Sommers wisely ensures this time that Fraser and Weisz team up early in the film, so we can all more fully enjoy those rom-com sparks flying.About the only character actually keeping a straight face and playing an orthodox but very convincing villain, is South African stage actor Arnold Vosloo who is Imhotep, The Mummy, aided in his role with some well executed CGI. effects.The Mummy is fast-paced from beginning to end, provides plenty of thrills, spills and laughs along the way, along with more than a touch of romance. It's lot of fun, quite charming and never pretentious. But ultimately, it reminded me of the fine movie lines that exist between hits and misses.