The Descent is a little Alien, some Predator, and quite an amount of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre. The story involves a group of cave explorers' journey through a deep cave, two miles underground. They don't necessarily make a great team-they seem unplanned, and we would go on to the third act, and figure out that they lack strategy as well. That is when some of the members become badass heroines, joining the bloodfest in the cave, where the unknown lies await.Simplistic as it is, The Descent offers an excellent atmosphere and very creative moments. The opening shows a shocking event that becomes a minor plot device. The entire first half is a better adventure film than a horror one; the team's first enemy is the landscape. There are lots of "setup" shots showing items that will inevitably appear later. Writer/Director Neil Marshall has an impressive style, especially for some amazingly lighted claustrophobic scenes.The thing is, these wonderful 50 minutes set my expectation high, that I found the latter half underwhelming. Fake jumpscares are a prominent element in the movie. There is so much of it that the real ones are less effective. The tone makes a 180-degree shift, changing to a lot of gory fights and killings. They should be thrilling experiences, but the problem is I simply can't see what's going on, because: 1. The scenes are extremely dark, which is realistic but unworkable for fight sequences. 2. The team all have the same gear, look, and voice. I have a hard time distinguishing them. 3. The editing makes a shift as well; the cuts are intensely quick, making my eye sore by looking at it for too long.But The Descent is a sufficient horror movie, because it is so interestingly constructed, and Marshall has great talents. Watching the characters, the situation and the film itself descend into madness is of great fun.

Focusing on the fear of claustrophobia with the simple dread of the unknown, The Descent puts likable characters in frightening situations. As a horror fanatic, this film floats at the top of my list of best scary films in recent years. The setup feels like it moves quickly and seamlessly into the main storyline, but that's because it's so beautifully shot, well-acted, and scripted so that we know and care enough about the characters to worry once they belay down into the dark cave. This character knowledge carries weight throughout the movie, as the group variously splinters and works together to escape. Shocks and jolts start before the central scare appears. And props to an all-woman cast that feels totally natural and not slapped together to achieve cheap feminist self-congratulations. Well-acted and atmospheric, I recommend this movie to anyone wanting to see a solid, scary horror movie that doesn't reinvent the genre, but definitely strays from the norm.

An interesting and differentiated horror movie in the "gore" style. It is above average for the genre. It started slowly, but after half it became interesting, maintaining a tense atmosphere, a little frightening and claustrophobic. The atmosphere is good. It can be divided into two parts: before and after the cave. You sit on the armchair during the exhibition with that feeling of agony and distress. It escapes from the usual clichés to the genre, having an unconventional and surprising ending. There are some logic flaws in the plot and the characters, but nothing that compromises the story. The curiosity is to see the cast practically all feminine. It's worth as entertainment. I recommend it to all lovers of horror art.

What's interesting to me is the deeper meaning and symbols of the film. The film is really about two women. Sarah, and her friend, Juno. The film opens with Sarah losing both her husband and child in a horrific wreck. Over the course of the movie, it becomes apparent that the accident was caused because the husband was distracted and upset over an affair he was having with Juno. Sarah is aware, at least subconsciously, of Juno's betrayal and that it lead to the deaths of her husband and child. She is not in a place mentally or emotionally to acknowledge it on a conscious level. When Sarah awakens from the wreck, there is a sequence where she runs from darkness. The darkness symbolizes a call to action. Sarah rejects it by running from it. She isn't ready yet. This is classically what chase dreams are about. The dreamer is being pursued by their subconscious given horrible form. If the dreamer can make a conscious effort to stop running and speak to the scary thing chasing them, that dreamer's unconscious will speak directly to the dreamer. This would be the conscious (dreamer) dropping the ego defense (running) and interacting with the subconscious (chaser) to gain new insight.A year passes and Juno get all the friends together to go spelunking. She lies and takes them to a cave she has discovered because she wants Sarah and her to be the ones who find the cave complex and name it. In Juno's sick mind, she's trying to perform some type of penance. She doesn't see that she's manipulating her friends to do something incredibly dangerous. Juno is a manipulator who only sees things from her own narcissistic point of view. Other people are only as real as Juno feels about them.Going underground is dream imagery for going into the subconscious. This could be going into a basement under a bar as in Fight Club or even underwater.Sarah is returning to the darkness that she ran from earlier. She starts to experience hallucinations (waking dreams) mainly her daughter's laugh. Her subconscious is pulling her back to the event that damaged her psyche (the wreck).They get trapped and so must go deeper into the cave to find a way out. Thus Sarah is going deeper and deeper into her subconscious. It's not readily apparent but it's when they get to the deepest point of the caves (the deepest level of consciousness) that they actually encounter the cave people. If you watch you'll notice that they stop traveling downward (they may fall or are be pushed downward but the never choose to go down). Thus the cave people are the most base and ancient level of Sarah's mind. They lack all their senses. They have no problem-solving or tool-using skills but they are very strong and aggressive. They are a primal force.While down with these creatures, several key events happen. The first is that Juno and Sarah's friends began to be picked off. The second is Juno's true character is revealed. She stabs one of her friends (accident) but then leaves rather then helps her (because of shock but on purpose). What's interesting is that as soon as Juno reunites with the main group, she makes a big show about she won't leave without Sarah who is missing. She acts differently when people are around. Character is what you do when others aren't watching. Juno is a person of weak character.The biggest key event is that Sarah is separated from the group and ends up in the den of the cave dwellers. The heart of this lowest level of her subconscious. It is here that Juno's original betrayal becomes fully known to Sarah's conscious self. The friend that Juno stabbed is bleeding to death and tells Sarah of Juno and her husband. It's at this lowest level that Sarah understands Juno. Juno is the type of woman that would wreck the marriage of a good friend, stab a friend and leave them to die alone, and lead all her friends to certain death because of an ego trip. In short, Juno is a destructive force. Sarah kills her hurt friend to end her suffering. This is the action that Juno refused. Sarah empathized with her friend and refused to leave her in pain to make her escape. Juno did not do this. Juno felt that her feelings and safety were more important than her friend's suffering.The other event that happens in this room, is that Sarah kills a cave dweller child and observes it's mother grieving over the loss. Sarah has now committed the same sin as Juno. The mother tries to kill Sarah. This is what is missing from Sarah's life. Sarah needs to take vengeance on Juno to become whole.Sarah eventually meets up with Juno again and they began to make their way out as the last two survivors. After the last big fight against the cave dwellers, Sarah confronts Juno about her lies, manipulations, and betrayals. Then, Sarah stabs Juno in the leg and leaves her for the cave dwellers. This the same action Juno took earlier when she stabbed her friend and left her. What is different is that Sarah makes a conscious choice to kill Juno and takes responsibility for the action where Juno avoids the responsibility of everything she has done.Then there is a long sequence where Sarah is climbing upward out of the dark to the light. This is symbolic of a return to consciousness and the real world.This movie has parallels with Hamlet. What is missing from Sarah is what was missing from Hamlet. They both need to take action but because of the horribleness of the action they must take, they have recoiled from it and spend the whole story getting to a point where they come to terms with what they must do to be whole.

SPOILER-FREE FOR FIRST PARAGRAPH ONLY Having heard SO much about this movie , I couldn't wait to watch it. People said it was one of the best horror movies ever and to be honest , I disagree. While it was pretty great at creating this eerie and uncomfortable atmosphere that made you hold your breath throughout the movie , I find that the plot falls somewhat short in delivering what needed to be delivered. If you're like me and want a movie that constantly engages you and keeps you on the edge of your seat , WATCH IT. But if additionally you want a proper plot with characters you can grow to love AND a satisfactory ending , look elsewhere.SPOILERS!!!Firstly , for me , the scenes at the beginning with the death of Sarah's husband and daughter felt a bit out of place , it seemed as if their only purpose was to solidify Sarah's main character position in the viewer's heads. Additionally , while I do agree that there were some amazing shots at times but honestly , for most of the movie after the 6 women entered the cave , it was so difficult to make out what was going on and who was who. I could pretty much only see Juno and Sarah properly , the other 4 were barely recognisable. The acting was great , the way all 6 of them managed to capture the desperation of getting stuck in this undiscovered cave with seemingly no way out , I had chills.The jumpscares didn't feel cheap either but I didn't really like the transition shots to Sarah's daughter over and over , it felt a bit out of place. Maybe it showed Sarah's descent into madness? Also, aside from Juno misleading the group and having an affair with Sarah's husband , I don't agree with her being villainised (is this a word?) for OBVIOUSLY accidentally killing Beth or whatever her name was. It wasn't good for Juno to leave Beth dying alone and then lying to the group about her death but still , what would one do in that situation ? The logical thing to do would be to get OUT of this cave situation first , get help and then discuss the deaths and unpack Beth's death too. Had Juno brought up in front of the group that she somehow managed to kill Beth , it would've worsened the chaos in my opinion. That being said , Juno deserved to be held accountable for misleading the group to the cave in the first place but not in the way that Sarah carried it out. Intentionally hurting Juno like that and leaving her to die made Sarah the villain , sorry.Anyways , I'm not really much of a good writer and English isn't my first language AND this is my first review ever so it probably didn't make much sense but yep , good movie but a bit overhyped. But it's just my opinion , like whatever you like ! HAPPY WATCHING! :)

If nightmare inducing horror is not your bag then the less you know about The Descent the better. Geordie writer-director Neil Marshall has delivered an accomplished, well acted, out and out horror movie that comes as much of a pleasant surprise as his first major feature Dog Soldiers did back in 2002. Shot in a mere 7 weeks The Descent sees a sextet of undeniably attractive action women leaping headfirst into an Appalachian potholing adventure that goes wrong so quickly you are left wondering if any one of them will survive, let alone ever see daylight again.There are comparisons to be drawn to Marshall's 'Soldiers of course - again the story is stark and wonderfully economic. Again there is group of six people, predominantly one sex accompanied with a lurking, ominous threat and again there are more nods to popular film culture than you probably realise. The Descent however has a sense of humour that is suitably pitch black.Long before the cave appears we play witness to a traumatic event that underlies the plot and serves to both unite and tear apart relationships in equal measure. Mostly affected are fragile Sarah and physically strong Juno, an adrenaline junkie who leads the group further and further beneath the ground. No time is wasted in recreating the primal feel of crawling through tunnels with hard hats scraping the dust from the rocks, choking and inducing paranoia all the way as it lingers in the stale, torchlit air. It's here Marshall gets a little inventive. Playing with various different lighting techniques our heroines become colour coded through scenes via glow-sticks, flashlights and video camera. Sounds echo when visuals are briefly lost and deliciously bone crunching they are too. Events escalate quickly and the whole ride becomes what can only be described as a non-stop relentless assault on the senses that will demand repeated viewing.The only thing that will ruin this movie for you is word of mouth, which ironically is exactly what this film will need to become commercially viable. But the less you know, the more you will enjoy it. Have fun spotting references to Carrie and Apocalypse Now by all means, but don't be fooled into thinking this is a mere standard entry into the much saturated genre-movie staple. The Descent will rank as one of the most unashamedly terrifying British films ever made. It was made by people that love good cinema, and it shows. The Descent was made before The Cave, and now has an alternate ending for new audiences.

There aren't that many British horror films, so it's not too much of a stretch to call this one of the best British horror movies i've seen. It has flaws, but i've only seen a few films in my life that don't. It's incredibly entertaining though.The basic premise: Fun-loving, adventurous Sarah suffers a personal tragedy, a year later her friends rally round and they go on a caving trip in the Appalachian Mountains in the US. Things go awry.It's a slow starter this film, the tension is palpable from the start but things don't properly kick off for nearly an hour. Don't get me wrong, it's never dull, but the pacing of the film is similar to that of a roller-coaster. There's an uphill wind-up that builds suspense, but when it goes over the edge it just doesn't let up until you come to a juddering halt. All the horror techniques are used here, there are enough jumps (both telegraphed and not) that every pause will have you ready to flinch, but there's also fantastic use of suspense and everything about the film oozes menace and foreboding. A special mention is needed for the music. Like all good scores, it goes mostly unnoticed. But it's intertwined beautifully with the film, it moves you and misleads you, it swells from background plinks and plonks to grand, blaring orchestral pieces. The lighting is also masterful. When the girls split up, Marshall uses different lighting to indicate which person or group you are looking at. Whether it's through infra-red camera, luminous green light-sticks or red flares and torches, you instantly know who you're looking at, and that cuts down on the confusion very effectively. Flaws? The dialogue is a little clunky at the start, there's a few moments of cgi as they first enter the cave that are pretty shoddy. Other than that it ticks all the right boxes. Great acting, great plot, excellent gore levels, perfect ending. Not everyones cup of tea, but definitely mine. Hell hath no fury

I really enjoyed Neil Marshall's DOG SOLDIERS and knew right away that here was a genre director to keep an eye on . For some strange reason it wasn't until tonight that I got round to seeing THE DESCENT and felt disappointed with it . If you're after a film that delivers buckets of gore and has you jumping out of your seat then you will not be disappointed . If however you're after a film that has the same sort of charm as DOG SOLDIERS then you'll be as disappointed as I was That's the problem with THE DESCENT because it lacks any sort of charm , humour or warmth and unfortunately if you liked one of Neil's films you'll probably dislike the other . The one problem I had with DOG SOLDIERS is that it took a long time to get into its stride and it's possibly the only thing it shares with this film , though to be honest it's worse in that respect because we have to wait almost a whole hour before the monsters turn up and until then we have to endure a girls get together in the remote American wilderness . Compare this narrative structure to something like 28 DAYS LATER which instantly draws the audience into the story , or even better 28 WEEKS LATER which has an absolutely awesome opening ten minutes Right away you can see the difference between the two movies . In one we have good natured British squaddies complete with a blokey attitude while in the other we have a cosmopolitan bunch of unsympathetic women who I found very annoying , so much so that I found myself cheering for the monsters . Not a very charitable attitude I know but compare this with the characterization of Sgt Wells , Coop and Spoon from the earlier movie where you couldn't not like the characters . Likewise throughout THE DESCENT there's a totally grim , bleak and nihilistic atmosph ere that is reflected in thestoryline and you won't feel like smiling after watching this . You can make the argument that Neil Marshall has made two horror films that are poles apart and you'd be right , but shouldn't a horror film be fun ? Isn't this the reason why DOG SOLDIERS was so enjoyable ? Despite my criticism THE DESCENT was met with critical and commercial success and put Neil Marshall on the map in America . Seeing as we have a horror director who can make very different genre films I can't help thinking that if the rumoured 28 MONTHS LATER makes it into production then Neil Marshall would be a strong contender for director . One common criticism of the first two films in the franchise is that the second halves have a problem sustaining the momentum which is not a problem I've seen with this director's previous work and a grim , downbeat ending would be more in keeping with the 28 franchise than with this type of horror movie

With Dog Soldiers, Neil Marshall created a tight and claustrophobic atmosphere then added the scares to create a very good horror film. However, the tension was often released with humour and the audience were allowed to catch their breath and relax. At no point in The Descent are you allowed to relax as Marshall grabs your attention within the first few minutes and doesn't let go until the credits roll at the end.With the film set almost entirely underground, the lack of light is used to wonderful effect and Marshall keeps you on edge for 100 minutes; if you liked Dog Soldiers, 28 Days Later and/or Haute Tension and are sick of the formulaic rubbish being pumped out of Hollywood then The Descent is likely to be right up your street.

Sarah and her friends Beth and Juno have always enjoyed adventure holidays together, despite Sarah now having a family and a more settled life. A road accident after a white water rafting holiday sees Sarah's family snatched away from her and leaves her in a hospital. A year later Sarah and Beth travel to the US to meet up with Juno and her friends for some caving. Unbeknownst to them, Juno takes them to a series of caves off the beaten track. A rock slide sees the group cut off from their entry point and forced to go deeper into the system to try and find a way out.I have said it many times that I am not a big fan of gore and, that if you get the tone and atmosphere right, I do frighten quite easily. The Descent got good reviews in the UK (perhaps this is to be expected) but I decided to ignore it at the cinema and then again on video. When it was on the selection on a plane journey I decided against it, even though my girlfriend went for it; she spent the majority of the film tensed up and I felt I had made the right decision. When it came on television recently though I decided that enough was enough and went for it (well, I taped it – I mean it was on late at night for goodness sake). Having finally watched it I am glad I did as it is a really strong thriller that delivers atmosphere and tension in spades.Some have said that it is very grim stuff but to me that is part of the appeal. Long-time IMDb reviewer Theo Robertson comments that the lack of charm, humour or warmth is a problem but I have to disagree. On the contrary the nihilistic tone increases the tensions within the narrative and draws the audience into it further – there are no witty one-liners, there are no comedy-relief characters, nothing to allow the audience a space that is safe to breathe. Theo is bang on the money though when he says that those that loved Dog Soldiers will probably prefer it to this (and vice versa) because it does include "fun" and comedy – making it more of a multiplex horror movie, one that is enjoyable even though it delivers jumps. He is right because I loved The Descent where I only thought Dog Soldiers was OK.When this was released, Neil Marshall appeared unlucky to have made this at the same time as America's The Cave, but in reality his film stands up on its own. Although he needs to light his scenes and not just rely on torches, he embraces the darkness of the caves with relish. The first hour is tense, even though the crawlers do not show up until late into it. This is because Marshall is working on character issues in the background but mostly because he is introducing us to this world of darkness, falls and tunnels. We are already there once the real danger comes and because he has got this tension already working, it doesn't matter whether or not we see the creatures or not – it is the fear of the darkness and the unknown that does it (two very base fears that he plays on expertly). The creatures are really well done as well, the noise and the speed of movement making them scary more than what they do (which is more about the gore). The grim air continues unto the ending, which I consider to be perfectly in keeping with what has gone before. I refer of course to the ending of the "proper" version and not the "upbeat" one forced upon some audiences where we close with Sarah having made it out but confronted with a vision(?) of a bloody Juno in the car with her. Instead the proper version sees Sarah mentally collapsed, everyone dead and the sounds all around surely meaning it is a matter of "when" and not "if" in regards Sarah going the same way. It is not cheerful of course but if a suitably grim ending and much better than ending it on the car scene.The cast are at times difficult to tell apart and some of them are just random people. Buring has a distinctive character but I did struggle to tell Reid, Mulder and No one apart from the others in the dark. At the head of the cast though are two great performances from Macdonald and Mendoza that are full of fear, fire and hurt. The car accident and the implied infidelity is not pushed to the fore but it is kept around and used to enrich some of the interactions. Macdonald loses it convincingly while Mendoza is a strong counter to her emotion (as well as being stunning). I was engaged by the way the film didn't give us a "bad guy" in the group and indeed I felt sympathy and dislike for both characters. Of course the main thing the cast have to do is convince within the world of the film and they do this effectively throughout, whether it is a simple rock fall or being hunted for food. Aside from them the majority of the credit belongs to Marshall and cinematographer McCurdy (and you can understand why the latter was sought out for Hills Have Eyes 2) as they deliver a tense atmosphere that really draws the audience in so that you do share the characters fear and urgency.Overall a grim but superior horror film that benefits from the dark style and content. The gore is there if you want it but for me it is the constant sense of fear and nothingness that engaged me, from the first entry into the caves right through to the nihilistic (proper) ending.

I watched this film many years ago. It totally rocked when it finally started moving. One must consider this was a 2005 film cast with all women cave explorers. How unique and sexy was that? I absolutely hated the woman that lied and got them trapped in the first place, Juno. I wanted to kill her myself, which means the writers did their job by making me emotionally vested (good or bad) in their character. Not to mention, she was fine!!! I absolutely love brunettes.The whole cave dwelling creatures plot caught my attention as I am a city-rat from birth. I have never been in a cave. After watching this film, I never wanted to go inside one (lol). What often gets overlooked are the actors who play the creatures. They did a phenomenal job and brought a lot to the suspenseful scenes.Although this film isn't epic. It was a cool change of horror especially for 2005. I don't know how they filmed some of the scenes but they had me convinced they were deep inside a maze riddled cave.As a horror flick, the blood and gore is on par with the bloodiest goriest flicks you can imagine. Its horror. What do viewers expect? One scene involving basically a swimming pool of blood and muck, took gross to new levels.I gave this movie an extra point for the setting, the creatures, and the human villain (she is fine!!!).

Still the best all woman horror around with some good acting. Although the storyline is desperately obvious and don't think about the ecology of the monsters.

Maybe i missed something. That HAS to be it. This movie was one of the worst horror films I've seen in... well, just a couple of weeks. It's SO dam hard to make a good scary movie today, I feel for the people trying to accomplish this mission. I've been a horror fan my entire life; granted, i was born in '85, but who's counting? This movie just didn't follow any continuity- the monster isn't revealed until an hour in (which is fine), but there is no suspense up to that moment. It's just a bunch of girls bickering and drama between mourning, sexual affairs and outright backstabbing. Then, 2 seconds later, MONSTER. Who apparently is a human evolved into blindness and echo location sensitive, but can't find the two girls breathing like maniacs 16inches below him, in front of his face. I will acknowledge the poetic symbolism in some scenes- we all know what I'm talking about. And, I probably have it wrong, but the end is this- she'll never get away from the evils of her past...??? Wrong? Please, I would LOVE someone to convince me this movie is more than a 5/10.