Can't say much without it spoiling the movie! Rating 9 because a lot of it moved a bit slowly but I guess that was all for a reason!Movie was fantastic but the ending was even better!!Definitely worth a watch! If you get bored by any chance, stick through it, trust me!!

Twenty years on, and The Others still rates as one of the best, most memorable horrors of the last two decades. It doesn't have the cheap gore or lazy scares that so many do, this has the element of menace, the scares are more measured, and suitably placed.It's very different to almost every other horror I can think of, it's like a story from a much earlier era, but given up to date production values and acting. It benefits of course from such a wonderful cast, Kidman is awesome, and does a terrific English accent.The ending came as a massive surprise, and was perhaps the most chilling element of the film. It is loaded with atmosphere, it's thoroughly engrossing, I would hugely recommend this film, 10/10.

The Others is yet another in a long list of great horror movies of the new millennium. I have always loved ghost stories, and this film has easily become my favorite ghost story ever. It's like one of the great old black and white ghost stories but better. It takes you on a slow, and uncomfortable ride.The story is simple. Grace lives in a mansion with her two children, both allergic to sunlight. That little twist on the story was just great. It makes the film completely opposite than other ghost stories, with Grace not afraid of the dark, and making sure to keep the light out, to save her children. This provides us with a very creepy, and dark atmosphere. Plus the mansion is also a creepy place. Not to mention, that in the film everyone who enters the house, must close the previous door, before opening the next.
Nicole Kidman is perfectly cast in The Others. This may be one of her best performances ever (She was also great in this years Moulin Rouge). She was really very believable in the part. The two kids in this film were also fantastic. Alakina Mann as Anne was terrific. She played the bullying sister great. She and James Bently, who played Nicolas, really seemed like siblings. Awesome job by both. Fionnula Flanagan was also fantastic as Mrs. Mills. She really creeped me out, and I didn't know where she stood. Was she good or bad? I didn't know, but her acting was right on the ball.Alejandro Anemabar directed The Others with such atmosphere. The dark lighting is creepy, and the cinematography is beautiful. This guy's has got a bright future. To accompany all the atmosphere we get a fabulous score by the director, Alejandro Amenabar. The music is creepy, and really adds to the feel of a 50's ghost story. It also sets the mood of the film, and makes the scary scenes, even scarier. The score is fabulous. Not only did Alejandro Amenabar direct, and score, but he wrote the great, and well-developed screenplay.The Others is not without a great twist ending, that should shock everyone. I did not see it coming, and it's such an original concept to use in a ghost story. It worked well, and I was speechless after the film. Outstanding finale.This film is yet another horror film that proves that big budget special effects suck! This film is scary, and it only had a $17m budget. The Others did great at the box office, and deserved every buck it earned. It's a creepy film, that has its very scary moments. This is a film that will not be forgotten. It'll be stuck in my mind for a long time. This really reminded me of an old 40's or 50's film. I highly recommend this film to every fan of ghost stories.The Others: 10/10, A+

If I had to sum up this movie in a word, it would be "chilling."  The Others is a delightfully atmospheric suspense film.  It's tense, scary, and very memorable -- I don't think I'll ever forget the image of a terrified Nicole Kidman clutching her rosary beads around her shotgun as she tears down the halls of her dreadful Victorian mansion.Writer/director/composer Alejandro Amenabar creates a dark, dark atmosphere, in which you feel like you can't trust anyone.  Nicole Kidman, in her brilliant performance as Grace, is supposedly the "heroine" of the film, but as I watched the movie I found myself more frightened of her than rooting for her; steely and overbearing, with a hint of psychotic hysteria in her icy eyes.  And then the children, (held their own and even stole a few scenes from the more experienced players) were just hellishly creepy.  The little girl was one of the most ominous characters I have ever seen in a film.  And the servants (who were also finely played) will keep you guessing the whole way through.  Every time you think you have it figured out, some of the household help will pop up and throw the whole framework off-kilter.The real attraction in this film is Nicole Kidman, following up her bravura performance as Satine in "Moulin Rouge" with a woman teetering between insanity and iron control.  Grace has so many layers, and Kidman reveals almost all of them through her face.  The film is anchored by her presence, and she plays off the other actors extremely well -- note the tense relationship she has with Anne, her daughter.  When the two lock eyes, it's like watching two trains crash head-first into one another.The only disappointment in this movie is the ending, which is slightly anti-climactic.  When you get to it, you'll be satisfied, and it ties up everything that's happened in the movie up to that point quite well.  But it seemed almost anti-climactic, and I was left feeling a little bit let down.Overall, I gave The Others a 9/10.

'The Others' takes up way more time in the viewer's life than it deserves. It is only vaguely worth it for its trick ending, and let's face it, if it didn't have an ending like that there would be nothing to the film at all.Everything plods along so slowly, and there are quite a few things which seem illogical, for example how the daughter screams wildly at some things but is very matter-of-fact about sightings of intruders in the house.Because nothing much is happening, it is only inevitable that some major shock ending is coming, and quite frankly, while it is surprising, it's not really that mind-blowing, and certainly doesn't make the whole movie worthwhile.Could have been a lot better.

Good suspenseful film with lots of great twists. Some parts of the film do drag on and could speed it up. It's worth it though for amazing twist at the end. Nicole Kidman does a great job leading this film. Very well acted scenes from Kidman in this film.

I was 17 when this came out and I didn't think much of it at the time.
20 years later I just watched it for the second time and it was much better than I remember.

In 1945, in Jersey, Channel Islands, the widow Grace Stewart (Nicole Kidman) lives in a lonely old house with her daughter Anne (Alakina Mann) and her son Nicholas (James Bentley). Grace lost her beloved husband Charles (Christopher Eccleston) in the World War II and their children are photosensitive and Grace keeps the curtains and the doors closed to protect Anne and Nicholas against the sunlight. Grace raises her children with strict discipline and following religious principles. Grace hires the strange housekeeper Mrs. Bertha Mills (Fionnula Flanagan), the mute maid Lydia (Elaine Cassidy) and the gardener Mr. Edmund Tuttle (Eric Sykes) that have asked for a job. Out of the blue, mysterious things happen in the mansion and Anne claims that there is a boy named Viktor that visits them. Grace unsuccessfully seeks out the intruders until the day she has a revelation about the house and its intruders. "The Others" is one of the best and the most original ghost stories of haunted house ever made (the best is actually "Haunted"). Nobody can guess the final plot point that has one of the best twists of the cinema history. I saw "The Others" for the first time on 28 June 2002 and today, almost ten years later, I have enjoyed almost the same way I did in 2002.This is the third film made by the excellent Alejandro Amenábar, who is the director, writer and composer. The plot is very well disclosed and the entire cast has magnificent performances. Nicole Kidman is very beautiful before her plastic surgery of the nose and has a top-notch performance. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Os Outros" ("The Others")

A woman and her 2 children (husband at war) move to a large dark house, supported by 3 servants. It soon becomes apparent that they are not alone.Very much a slow burner that could have been agonisingly slow if it wasn't for a tour de force and utterly compelling performance by Kidman. Everything is extremely creepy rather than scary with the entire supporting cast all playing their part in keeping it that way.So not for those who prefer their scares jumpy but producing enough judders to ensure it is up there with the best of ghost stories.

The others ***/**** "The Others" is a suspenseful horror film unlike many these days. Most are concerned with blood and gore, teenage girls getting naked, body count, and not scary. "The Others" is atmospheric, spooky, bloodless, and carried by strong acting and fleshed out characters. Yet, it takes too long to make an impact and the final payoff is not as shocking as it should be. The plot is simple and not especially innovative (your average ghost story), but it seems fresh thanks to strong acting and a well-crafted, eerie atmosphere that rivals that of a Tim Burton film. Nicole Kidman is Grace, a beautiful young married mother who must raise her two children, Anne (Alakina Mann) and Nicholas (James Bentley) alone in their gigantic (actually, ridiculously large) mansion on a British isle, around the end of WWII. They are alone, for the husband and father has been at war and has not returned, and their housekeepers mysteriously vanished. Suddenly, a trio of friendly caretakers arrive one day. Mrs. Mills (Fionnula Flanagan) is the amiable old lady, Lydia (Elaine Cassidy) is a mute young girl, and Mr. Tuttle (Eric Sykes) is the not-so-social gardener. However, there is a strange, arcane facet to the trio; they have little background and had no way of knowing that Grace was offering positions at her manor. Aside from this, Grace must deal with her children, who have a deadly allergy to light, which means that the house must be dark all the time, allowing for a spooky dark, shadowy ambience. Anna and Nicholas, most importantly, have been visited - by a family of ghosts. Noises - crying, piano music, and running - have been heard. And curtains that stop light from entering the house are opening and closing by themselves. The film is based around Grace's efforts to solve the enigma.I love the atmosphere of "The Others," set in a nostalgic and ominous 1940's estate. Snowy mist blankets the grass and crisp fall leaves. Murky waters of a lake border the chateau. Elegant furniture, polished marble and wood floors, neatly-woven blankets, tautly fabricated furnishings of wood and olive green cloth, coal black German sedans, lightly wrinkled sweaters and jackets are all seemingly authentic from the era. One spectacular and tense scene has Grace haplessly stumbling through an impenetrably thick ocean of milky fog that weaves through overhanging trees and a ground of crunchy bronze and russet leaves.The action takes a while to get started up, which is a major negative. This is due to the director, Amenabar, spending time to develop an involving plot, 3-D characters, and the aforementioned décor. While Amenabar succeeds in those respects, we find ourselves wishing something would happen. Many people will easily become bored, feel tempted to sleep or leave, etc., but I, while not exactly enthralled by that point in the film, was still enjoying it.When we finally are treated to doses of suspense and chills (not so much horror and terror), it is satisfying. You most likely will find yourself on the edge of your seat or huddled in a ball anxiously awaiting the potentially fatal results of Grace's investigation. This is not so much because you care about her character, but really because you expect a sudden scream and heart-stopping outburst of maniacal ghosts. Most scenes are chilling, including the door shutting in the piano room, the old lady in the white dress, and the final chaotic conclusion. However, I can not say that I was truly horrified and paranoid from this film, unlike "The Sixth Sense," where I was freaked out for months. I was still very entertained.I must commend all the actors in the film, especially Nicole Kidman. The acting was down to earth and realistic, despite Nicole Kidman forced into saying some foolish lines ("Something.. Diabolical!). The two child actors, Mann and Bentley, were excellent in a fairly difficult role for children. Another important downside to the film was the "shocking" conclusion. While I must admit that I found it brilliant, it lacked the powerful punch I wish it had. I don't know why this is, it just isn't. I am disappointed at how much potential the ending could have packed and how little it did. Overall, I found "The Others" a highly entertaining thriller with magnetic milieus and plenty of startles.