According to The Grudge, there's a Japanese belief that when someone dies in a powerful grip of rage, then a curse is left behind. It's a "stain" that forever becomes a part of the place where the death occurred, and it will kill everything it touches. All I can say is if that were true then the movie-going public better hope I never die in a theater. The audience at this movie was probably the most obnoxious crowd I've ever had the displeasure of watching a movie with. Talk about being in a powerful grip of rage. More on that later.Jump scenes rule the day here. That's right, this baby is stocked with jump scenes! If you're having a hard time deciphering my complicated terminology, then let me explain that a "jump scene" is one in which something startling happens to catch you off guard and makes you jump in your seat. Some people think jump scenes are cheap ploys to get a scare from the audience, but they're really well done in this movie. And they're manufactured frequently and shrewdly enough to keep you in a constant state of unease.Unfortunately, when most moviegoers get scared they like to scream and then laugh and talk about it for 2 minutes afterwards. If you're gonna scream then scream. But then SHUT UP and WATCH THE MOVIE! This ain't a comedy and it certainly isn't a coffeehouse, so quit killin' my atmosphere.Some of you might be a little agitated to know that The Grudge does follow some clichéd horror movie conventions, such as a character investigating a creepy noise in a dark attic with only a cigarette lighter to illuminate the way. And of course, one character has to slowly follow a strange figure that shouldn't be there in the first place. But it's forgivable. Keep in mind, characters aren't necessarily supposed to know they're in a horror movie. I'm sure we've all explored strange noises before, except rather than a horrific, disfigured ghost producing the noise, in real life the sound is usually coming from Uncle Larry's bathroom excursion. Never underestimate the horror of a night out at the Taco Bell.Comparisons to The Ring are inevitable, so I'll just say that I personally feel The Grudge is the creepier of the two. This is a movie that's heavy on atmosphere and freaky imagery. The Japanese ghosts creeped me out even more than the time I caught some pervert staring at me in the men's bathroom stall back in my college days. Lucky for him, he took off before I had a chance to demonstrate what happens when a person is caught in a powerful grip of rage.But The Ring has the better story and a much better ending. The Grudge does a great job of keeping you guessing. You never really know where it's going, and since the story isn't linear you really have to pay attention. I know a lot of you have the attention span of a goldfish (about 9 seconds, you just learned something today, thank me later), so this may be problematic. I think it works fairly well, but one of my complaints is that near the end everything is wrapped up and explained rather quickly.As a result, I wish the movie had been longer. A longer running time could've produced more in-depth character development, a more clever way to explain what was going on, and maybe even a better ending. And there's my biggest complaint. Why do so many horror movies feel the need to use the I Know What You Did Last Summer-esque "look, there's gonna be a sequel" ending? Come on, how about some closure? It's similar to if you're waiting for me to close out my review in a witty and funny fashion, but instead, for some reason I just decide to end the review in mid sent...THE GISTIf you're looking for some Halloween entertainment, then The Grudge will give you some good jumps and surround you with creepy imagery. But I strongly recommend that you see it at a time when there won't be a big crowd because I know I would've enjoyed the movie a lot more had I not been surrounded by a lot of stand-up comedians who felt the need to crack jokes at the most tense and inopportune times. Folks, this is a horror movie. Tension and atmosphere are a big part of it, so please keep your laughing and talking to a minimum. I look forward to watching the DVD in peace and quiet one day where the only idiots I'll possibly be surrounded by will be friends and family. Rating: 3.75 (out of 5)

This review is really a word of warning, if you've seen any of the earlier Japanese versions of this story you've seen this movie before. If you've seen all four of the earlier films, you've really seen everything (except the frightening opening with Bill Pullman) and you'd best wait for home video.I understand that the film makers wanted to make sure that this film worked and made them money, so they repeated what worked, even casting the same Japanese actors for the kid and other roles; but it would have been nice if they had done more that was new beyond the opening sequence.This isn't to say that the film is bad, its not, rather, its just that unless you're walking in to the film fresh odds are you're going to be like me and know what each five or ten minutes is going to bring because of the set up of the sequence.For me it was a 6 out of 10, for fresh eyes probably higher.

The main theme of this movie is that a powerful negative force inhabits a place after someone has died a violent death, and that this negative force consumes all who touch the place in which the violent act occurred. This idea is not new, and many conjecture that what people believe are "ghosts" are in fact leftover energy from just such traumatic events. However, most American audiences want the "wronged parties" or "ghosts" to produce a moral outcome- either the punishment of the murderer(s) or the revelation of how the victims died. What most Americans don't really "get" or appreciate is this malevolent force striking out at random victims- the current occupants of the house, whoever they may be, however transient. This just spawns more innocent victims and seems pointless.On the positive side, the technical elements of the film were excellent, the parts of the film that were supposed to be scary were indeed scary, and the roles were well acted. In fact, for you Buffy fans out there, did you notice that Sarah Michele Gellar was reunited with two BTVS alumni? Jason Behr, who played her love interest, was Billy Ford in "Lie to Me" in season two, and the American wife who was caring for her mother-in-law before she was murdered by the "ghosts" was played by the same actress who played Marcie Ross in "Out of Mind Out of Sight" from season one.

"The Grudge" is quite possibly the most scariest ghost/horror movie I have ever seen. Sarah Michelle Gellar takes on the main role as nurse Karen living and working in Tokyo. While working she is exposed to a supernatural curse involving a vengeful spirit which locks a person in a powerful rage before claiming his/her life and spreading its curse to another person.This movie starts out with Karen moving to Tokyo with boyfriend Doug (Jason Behr), where we get a taste of drama as they adjust to their new lives in Japan. The suspense builds when they encounter mysterious events in the house Karen is a caretaker in and, what follows, are one creepy moment one after the other as main ghosts Kayako (Takako Fuji) and Toshiro (Yuya Ozeki) take center stage, wreaking havoc with those unfortunate enough to cross its path.Takashi Shimizu did a great job directing the movie that grabs the audience attention with scenes that send chills down your spine, has moments that make you jump, and has disturbing images that will stick in your mind after the movie is over. The mysterious yet dramatic atmosphere of the movie created an eerie feeling of the ongoing horror and the built-up suspense, which are contributed by the cast members' realistic and dramatic acting. Some of the plot lines dangled and are unexplained, but that is a minor flaw.Overall, this is a movie with the right balance of horror and drama - no over-the-top stuff. If you are a fan of horror movies, "The Grudge" is highly-recommended.Grade B+

In Japan when a nurse is assigned to visit a family she's chased by a vengeful and supernatural spirit that possesses its victims. Meanwile a man (Bill Pullman) commits suicide dropping himself from a high apartment. Karen Davis (Sara Michelle Gellar) a volunteer social agrees to cover another assistant. He goes to the ghastly house and find an elderly woman (Grace Zabrinski.) Then happen several flashbacks about the family (Clea Duvall, her husband and his sister KaDee Strickland). A series of terrible and mysterious deaths occur. A Police Inspector (Ryo Ishibashi) attempts to get to the bottom of the mystery. But Karen is also racing to saves her boyfriend (Jason Behr) and must now find to break the horrifying spell.This frightening movie displays terror, shocks, hard-edged drama and creepy images. While the look is suitable atmospheric and eerie, the argument stretches plausibility to the breaking point. This is an acceptable adaptation of the novel and movie that took successfully Japan. Nice cinematography by Yamamoto, Takashi Miike usual cameraman. Well produced in Japan by Robert G. Tapert and Sam Raimi and of course with intervention his brother Ted Raimi, as always. The motion picture is professionally directed by Takashi Shimzu in similar style to Hideo Nakata movies -The ring, Dark Water-. Shimzu is an expert on horror cinema with creepy phantoms of pale complexion and long hair . After that, he made ¨Reincarnation¨ also called ¨Rinne¨ again with palish phantoms and ¨Marebito¨ about a vampire in the Tokyo underground. It's followed by Grudge II again with Sara Michelle Gellar and Amber Tamblyn and similar equipment technical and artistic ; furthermore in production the third part. Rating : Acceptable and passable.

Do you like intelligently-written suspense and horror films? Then the Grudge is not for you. This film has a paper-thin plot, barely makes sense, shoddy-looking special effects, overused flashbacks, lackluster performances, and ultimately makes The Ring look like a masterpiece. Bill Pullman was grossly underutilized, albeit scanty screen-time was written that way in the script for him. I just can't believe Sam Raimi produced this film, because even the Evil Dead films blow this film away. I was one of three people in the theater viewing this film, and the other two left before the film was over. Stay far, far away from this movie. It is definitely not worth shelling out money for. This film leaves too many unanswered questions, including why this film was made.

I live in Switzerland and travel to Austria to see a movie in English language once a week. Its a fun thing to do because the film is always a 'Sneak' not yet on release film in Austria. Its also a surprise movie, so no-one knows what they are going to get till the curtain goes up. This is fine because it forces me to watch films I would never usually see out of choice. As always, the 'Sneak' was well attended with a starting audience of about 150. I was a bit doubt full about the film from the kick off, I mean, a lot of Japanese names on the opening credits and some non Japanese actors I never heard of... but I figured lets hang in and see what happens... Ten minutes into the movie, after a great deal of audience laughter the exodus started... twos and threes to start with then a steady flow with me almost wondering if there might be a fire back there when they found the jawbone in the roof space. As the final credits rolled a glanced over my shoulder (I like to sit in the front) and to my amazement saw that there were just 3 of us left! Thats right.. 3! I mean the move was bad... very bad.. but never in 40 years of regular movie going had I experienced anything like this. I found the effects passable at best, the direction a joke, the acting wooden and the script writer should do the honourable thing and fall on his sword... by the way.. if you saw the movie... don't you think the monster with the long lack hair and white skin looked familiar? Awooooooo!

It's ok - some creepy images here and there, but overall seemed more silly than scary. cool effects though.

I think The Grudge is typically one of those films that ages a little wearily and if you saw it back when it was first released then it would have felt innovative, and it probably would have seemed much more unique than it does today.The atmosphere is eerie, dark, and foreboding. The Japanese cityscape in the background didn't appeal to me much, but luckily the backstory and interior setting kept my mind focused on other areas of the film.The fascination is the sinister dead woman whose ghastly croaking, sticky movements, crackling limbs, and ominous facial expression instill fear directly into your soul.It's still an iconic image today and goes to show that you can forge a truly unique character that becomes so popular that it can be branched into a franchise.As for the story, I did feel a little letdown. I mean it had solid foundations, but it wasn't sensational. The family's backstory, their dark secrets, and the flashback sequences were the most interesting aspects of the film.I'm neither disappointed, nor enthralled by The Grudge as a whole. Even though the ending was quite lame. I can't say that I am too eager to see the next installment although you never know, I might be a little more surprised.6/10.

More than just a bit confusing, to say the least. Jumping between couples and time also adds to the confusion. The film plays like a bunch of random ideas thrown into a blender and mixed together. The child character is oh-so-cliched, as are the 'stalking' images on the victim's photographs. During the climax the heroin is so passive, its as if she simply allows everything to happen without any resistance whatsoever. Yawn.