Wes Anderson has been the face of a new brand of comedy ever since he burst onto the scene in 1996 with Bottle Rocket. He further established himself with the 1998 hit Rushmore. The Royal Tenenbaums is considered by many to be his finest work and it is kind of hard to dispute that. This is a rich, complex movie dealing with multiple characters that all suffer from serious trouble in one way or another. Gene Hackman plays the father of a family that was once quite prominent in the world of geniuses. The oldest son Chas was a successful real estate dealer, daughter Margot became a famous playwright in the ninth grade, and youngest son Richie went on to become a great tennis player. Still, all their talent couldn't keep their father from leaving them, and now he returns to see them because he tells them he is dying.This movie works, but not as easily as some other comedies. Being a Wes Anderson movie, the humor here is very dry and there are multiple scenes when you will ask yourself if you should be sad, angry, or laugh at the characters. The look of the movie is remarkable and it perfectly matches the feeling of each character. The acting is tremendous, especially by Hackman, as well as Ben Stiller, Gwyneth Paltrow, Luke Wilson, and Angelica Huston. The whole movie is filled with weird and quirk situations, yet it all makes sense somehow. The story gives us these people and their problems and we watch as they try to piece their life back together after being apart for so long. If you are a fan of Wes Anderson, you owe it to yourself to see this. If you aren't, it still is worth seeing, but give it some time. Watching it a second time really helped me understand the characters and the story better. It may do the same for you.

It seems to be generally agreed that this is Wes Anderson's staple film, or perhaps his mission statement as far as movies he wanted to create: idiosyncratic, campy tales about complex relationships being told in often witty and blunt dialogue. And no one can forget the Wes Anderson tells - symmetry, pastel or earthy color schemes, and Bill Murray. Even though the way this story is told would never happen in real life (it felt fitting that the "actual story" being told was through a book), it still feels incredibly human and almost believable in an odd way. Royal Tenenbaum (Gene Hackman) almost feels like the hero of a classic Greek tragedy, except the movie focuses more on gathering yourself the day, or in this case, the two decades after. Royal's ex-wife (Anjelica Huston), his two sons (Ben Stiller and Luke Wilson), his adopted daughter (Gwyneth Paltrow), and his children's friend from across the street (Owen Wilson) have all fallen on hard times (meltdowns, depression, drug use) decades after the family drifted apart. Royal attempts to reconnect with his family initially to keep his distanced wife from remarrying a tax advisor (Donny Glover), but throughout the film, he finds the best days of his life with his long-lost family. The group catches up with varying success and share in each other's mutual sadness. There are many beautiful and crushing scenes, heightened by the Wes Anderson style, and the story explores several different feelings and tones. I think the only real problem is that even though every character is written well and intricate in their own special way, and I believe each has an arc as well, there are so many people and histories to keep track of, it becomes a little bit of a nuisance. And the film struggles to juggle all these characters and all of this information in a balanced way; they each kind of have their moment and disappear for a while and then resurface briefly. And this makes the telling of the story a little choppy and confusing at points because you're always wondering who someone is or why they are acting the way they are until you remember through context clues. But if it weren't chosen to have this movie told through a book, I think it might have been much more noticeable. Of Anderson's films that I have seen, even though it is not my favorite by him, I'd say it's the best introduction to one of the best filmmakers in the industry right now.

I loved this movie the first time I saw it. And it grows on me a little bit every time I rewatch it. It's like going to visit an old friend's house. Anderson did such a marvelous job building this odd little world. It's just one indelible image after another. Gene Hackman is just marvelous. And that shot of Margot getting off the bus.

The Royal Tenenbaums, to put it shortly, is a weird movie. It is the story of a family longing for its heyday to return. It is the story of a man who wants to be accepted. It is a story of redemption, filled with small epiphanies and smaller details that make for excellent viewing. It takes delight in showcasing its brilliant characterizations and depictions of social oddities. Many will find it hard to relate to such strangers and therefore decline to revel in this film's cinematic glory. We can pity them.Those that enjoy Wes Anderson's films can be put into two categories. There are those that simply find them to be quirky joyrides and laugh them off as such. Then there are those who recognize the loneliness in all of the characters Wes Anderson writes - it is this sense of loneliness that Wes Anderson, as a storyteller, brings to the screen. It is this sense of loneliness that makes Wes Anderson one of the most visionary filmmakers out there today.The Royal Tenenbaums is an altogether thrilling experience. It is epic, filled with pageantry. Though categorized as a comedy, at times it seems darker then typical black comedies - a drama, or even a triumphant tragedy of life's unrealized outcasts. As Margot Tenenbaum (Gwenyth Paltrow) says in one of the last scenes: "Well, I'm sure he'll get over it." The Royal Tenenbaums is a rejoicing in the human spirit's reluctant but continuous march forward.

In my humble opinion this movie over promises.the reason I gave a 6 out of 10 is because the cast is excellent in in this movie.

I first saw this film on TV and have never seen a director quite like Wes Anderson displaying his outlook on life so expertly. He and Owen Wilson have created a family beyond dysfunctional. Their underplayed script of various oddballs all with their own tale of despair is as left-field as you'll find, with each character, and I stress this, as pathetic as the next.Gene Hackman plays the lead role of Royal with huge confidence while Paltrow (Margot), Stiller (Chaz), and Owen and Luke Wilson (Eli and Richie), develop into fully fledged actors in their brilliant well-rounded performances. Anjelica Huston plays the strong matriarchal head of the family and gives the biggest whiff of normalcy from the film with Kumar Pallana, the knife happy friend/butler/colleague at the opposite end of the spectrum. Along with Pallana's inspired creation, comes Anderson's strongest hand - background players. Like the Coens, he truly adores every character and you feel background with each one. Whether it be Danny Glover's sombre turn as Huston's love interest, Royal's colleague and partner in deception or Buckley the dog. They carry the film and keep it fresh.The script is as above mentioned, slow-burning, letting its characters develop with ease and no constraints. This sits perfectly with Anderson's patient camera, and eye to present the story in a skit-type basis which it very well may be with its spot-on throw away one-liners. When pestered about the nature of his suicide note Richie replies wryly, "Of course it's dark, It's a suicide note."Its along with these, the acting and Andersons direction that Tenenbaums is promoted from simply a cult or indie classic into something so much more. The slow moments perfectly sober the funnier and give room for rest and perspective. It is also where the film delivers its most touching and poignant moments. The wedding scene is totally destroying and will levels the viewer flat. As with Richie's graphic suicide attempt and Royals ultimate demise in the company of his previously absent son.I cannot praise this film enough but I have tried.

I just finished watching this movie with commentary, and after seeing how much care goes into each scene, I have fallen for the movie all over again.Even after watching this film 10+ times now, I love it all the more. I have never held this movie as my favorite, but now it has moved into the #1 position after a careful study, and realizing that even 50 more viewings would not unlock all the little treasures hidden within.You are doing yourself a huge disservice if you don't see this movie, or if you dismiss it after a single viewing. Watch it, again if necessary, and see what you are missing.

The Royal Tenenbaums received Oscar recognition in one category, that for
Director Wes Anderson's original screenplay. It didn't win, but no one can
ever say this wasn't original.Title character Gene Hackman is the estranged patriarch of the Tenenbaum clan and his baptismal name is Royal. He was a lawyer along the lines of 
Clarence Darrow back in the day, but has fallen on hard times. Back in his
prime he walked out on wife Angelica Huston and the children who grew 
up to be Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson, and Gwyneth Paltrow. Now with no place to go he decides to resume the role of dad.Problem is that Huston has decided after all these she wants a husband and
man she picked out is Danny Glover. As he's already lied his way into the
house with a false terminal cancer story, Hackman will have to work triple
overtime to accomplish his goal.If you like quirky characters than The Royal Tenenbaums will fill your bill. I
can bet that players were clamoring for these roles because there's nothing
ordinary in what we see of the people in this film. Any actor would love to
be in this because the writer gives them so much to work with and your imagination can sore.If you like unorothodox than The Royal Tenenbaums is your film. And whatever you think the ending will be I guarantee you will be wrong.

"The Royal Tenenbaums" is a film I recommend but I must point out that it's not everyone's sort of movie. Wes Anderson has written and directed a film that is filled with EXTREMELY strange characters that are very bizarre--not not in a John Waters way--more in a way that just left me a bit confused. I assume this was his intention but no matter how strange it gets, there is a certain likable aspect of the film...though exactly what this is, I am sure I can clearly say. I think it has a lot to do with the folks being completely different--and after reviewing more than 12000 films, it's nice to see something different.Gene Hackman plays the title character--a ne'er do well named Royal Tenenbaum. He's abandoned his family and inexplicably has returned after two decade's absence and wants readmission to the family. The plot, whether intended or not, is a remake of the old Warner Brothers film "Daughters Courageous"--though aside from the general plot, the films are not at all alike due to the quirkiness of "The Royal Tenenbaums". This is one you just need to see to believe--and the story never is believable but it's also never dull.By the way, in addition to the family members played by Anjelica Huston, Gwyneth Paltrow, Ben Stiller and Luke Wilson, other major actors in the film include Danny Glover, Owen Wilson and Bill Murray. This is yet another oddball performance/characterization from Bill Murray--who has made a long string of odd ones over the last decade or so, such as "Lost in Translation", "The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou" and "Broken Flowers". They don't always work but you have to respect his willingness to try something different.Oh, by the way, although they said it in the film, traumatic events do NOT turn a person's hair white. That's a myth.

The Royal Tenenbaums is a clever movie with a fine performance from one of my favorite actors, Gene Hackman. Other than saying it's clever, though, I'm not sure what else I can add. It's not a movie about people with quirks; it's a movie about quirks masquerading as people. When Gene Hackman's character is redeemed, it's not so much unbelievable as un-earned. The film might have been better if Bill Murray, relatively subdued in his minor part, had played Hackman's character and rejected redemption.As an example of how director Wes Anderson is clever to no apparent purpose, I point to the soundtrack, which is a wonderful melange of mostly-60s buried treasures like "These Days" by Nico and "She Smiled Sweetly" by the Stones. (He even throws in a cut from Dylan's Self Portrait; what is this s***, indeed.) While each song is welcome in my house any time, their purpose in the movie is never clear. They're good songs, and their lyrics generally fit the scenes in which they appear, but why a movie taking place in 2001 would use minor classics of the 60s is left unexplained. It does show Anderson's good taste in music, and perhaps that's it: everything about The Royal Tenenbaums demonstrates the excellence of the filmmakers, but precious little convinces me I'm watching a movie that lives up to that excellence.

This movie was absolutely HORRIBLE!!! The other people in the audience felt the same way. The movie was not funny at all. I almost walked out of the movie several times. The only reason I stayed was to watch the entire movie so I could log it as the WORST 2001 movie I have seen!  DO NOT SEE THIS TERRIBLE MOVIE!!!