Frankly I'm mad at all of those who have bashed this movie with bad reviews. The Wedding Planner to me is everything a romance movie should be. It starts with Mary as a child playing with her Barbies and then at her wedding she complains that she's fat and the receptionist tells her that she's beautiful. But the wedding gets stopped. But Mary then gets a visit from an old friend a kid who ate mud in the summer. Then Mary gets hit but gets saved by a doctor and she tells the doctor he smells like sweet plums and grilled cheese sandwiches. And then at the hospital Steve the doctor tells Mary she has a big neck. They then go to a movie and go dancing. But at a party Mary finds out that Steve's in love with the receptionist. But she stays. In the end Mary discovers her father wanted her to marry the other guy so she dumps him and goes to Steve and they live happily ever after.

The only thing more baffling than how movies this bad could ever be made is how movies this bad could go to #1 in the box office. I despair for humanity at times. The Wedding Planner features a rehashed and unoriginal plot, poor acting, no funny moments, and a ridiculous scene where Jennifer Lopez is prepared to risk getting flattened by a runaway dumpster in order to pull her shoe out of a hole in the street. riiiiiight!

Jennifer Lopez (who knew she could act?) plays the consummate professional wedding planner -- she's the best in the business and arranges all the most elegant affairs, but she herself hasn't had a date in six years.  She gets into a situation and her life is saved by Matthew McConaughey (he played Jodie Foster's fling, in "Contact"), and they end up on the verge of falling in love, when they both discover she's the wedding planner for his upcoming wedding to somebody else.  Light-hearted and well-done, it's a familiar story with a few twists of its own, and keeps you interested throughout. Basically a nice, fun story that's done well.

I know romantic comedies are one of the least realistic films made, but come on. This one is bad. The dumpster scene.. she somehow gets her shoe stuck, sees a dumpster which for some reason has it's wheels unlocked even though it was at the top of a hill. She sees the dumpster rolling at her, but yet still stays long enough to get killed, over a shoe that the dumpster may harmlessly roll over. Then she sees her savior and passes out..who faints for that long over being pushed away?
Then the rest of the movie ensues ..she is Italian? Her family doesn't act very Italian to me. Why do these movies expect us to believe there are beautiful awesome women who can't find a guy? These women have no problem getting dates. They are single only for short periods at most.
The characters are just stereotypes of people. I like a good romantic comedy but you need some realism. Out of millions of people the only wedding planner they can get was her. What are the odds? People need to act like real people and not stereotypes. There are other things that are seemingly implausible.
The last message of the film is breaking up a marriage is ok as long as you really love each other. Nice message. Imagine this told from the bride's view. Much different film.

I know of a lot of people who don't really like her movies but I am one of those people that do.  Every movie I have seen with her in it has been great!  This one was no exception.  I highly recommend it but only if you like the "corny" (as some say) romantic comedies. If you love movies like Runaway Bride, you'll love this one, I promise.

Jennifer Lopez is right at home playing the strong, intelligent professional, Mary, and despite her inability to properly tell a joke ("What, you think Kissinger wrote his own stuff?) or properly communicate strong emotion (like despair), she does well in the cutesy moments. Matthew McConaughey is charming as the conflicted Steve, and expertly plays both his character's dry, cynical side and his boyish joyfulness. The two play against one another well, unlike the boring Fran, whose idea of the perfect wedding song is Olivia Newton-John's "I Honestly Love You," and who can't seem to find one legitimate reason why she wants to marry Steve in the first place.As there are no other true funny characters, Massimo is perhaps intended to provide the film's comic relief, but his "humor" flows less from witty screen writing and masterful delivery and more from the director's mistaken assumption that every line a character delivers in broken English must be funny. Overall, "The Wedding Planner" does a good job of fulfilling audience expectations and creating characters that, while likable, are simply rom-com archetypes. The true romantic, unsatisfied with paltry declarations of love and empty representations of it, hopes for a bit more.Read my full review here: thecorrelationfilmblog.wordpress.com/2013/01/29/my-best-friends- weddingthe-wedding-planner/

A guilty pleasure.  Yes, it is a chick-flick but it is a real pleasure. McConaughey is as sexy as I've ever seen him and Lopez is really funny, handling the bumbling pratfall humor very well.This is a cute story.  But what really makes a good romantic comedy in my eyes is the chemistry between the lead actors and these two have it in spades!  I'd like to see them together again.  Better chemistry than Roberts and Gere or Roberts and Pitt.

Adam Shankman's second try to direct a movie has resulted in a total disaster. It is an uninspired creation, featuring an uninspired cast. Watching this movie is like watching a stampede of wildebeasts coming your way. You know what is going to happen, and the only solution is to run. The story is one big cliché, with not even one attempt to make it fresh. Lopez and McConaughey seem to have been cast for their looks only (Which doesn't surprise me at all for Lopez, as I have never been convinced of her acting qualities). They have no chemistry and do not even seem to be interested in the characters they are playing, making the whole a very boring affair to look at. This is not a movie but a commercial product, a blatant attempt to squeeze some more money out of the public. And, with an opening week of $13,5 million, apparently some people will just watch anything that moves and has a pretty face.David.