I had great expectations for the sequel to one of my favorite movies. When I learned it would be direct-to-video I worried. Such fears were more than confirmed. This movie, to put it bluntly is terrible when compared to the first. The plot is nonsensical, and takes place around a boring office environment. The acting is frigid, there is little character development, and predictably leads the viewer to little enjoyment, and lots of confusion.It would appear the director of this film has not even seen the first one, considering the frequent mistakes, and plot jumps.Save your money, skip this one. This possessed such great potential, but suffered such terribly delivery

When I first heard of the Butterfly effect 2 movie I was immediately thrilled and captivated, remembering the first Butterfly effect movie with reverence.The non linear buildup and suspense of the first Butterfly effect movie was a refreshing novelty when first released. I expected that the second Butterfly effect movie would continue on this highly enjoyable path. I found it strange and puzzling that Butterfly effect 2 did not make it onto the big screen , but was send strait onto DVD instead?. After I saw the movie, I had to conclude that Butterfly effect 2 is not even a shadow of the original Butterfly effect movie. The story is a lame, predictable love story without suspense or thrill. Now I can understand why the second movie was demoted directly onto a DVD. The first Butterfly effect movie was a trilling , suspenseful wild water ride compared to this stagnant pool of muck....

Many people thought the original film was brilliant, myself included. It did well at the box-office. Why, oh why did the studio decide to throw its IP straight down the drain? The franchise is the life-blood of Hollywood. The wilful trashing of a franchise is the worst possible sin.Anyway, this new movie is a nightmare. A hack writer and a hack director simply attempt to remake the first movie, without a clue as to what made the movie tick in the first place.So, in BE2, a young dude will do anything for the love of his girl. And has the power to change his own history, suffering the usual "monkey's paw" curse. We even have a copy of the undesired male-male sex scene.The young dude even has the same concerned Mom, and the same 'troubled' Dad as in the first one.Where the plot deviates, it does so by stripping out 90% of the original film's intricate plotting, leaving us with a crudely constructed parody.BE2 adds NOTHING to the mythology, and is devoid of any good action sequences. Even as straight-to-DVD, it stinks. Please, if you like the original, forget this trash. If you need another dose of the story, watch the original with the alternate ending.To the producers, let me say "why?". A decent script, a hungry young director, and a budget little different from this film would have given you 50 million dollars plus at the US box-office alone. Do you really have so much money that you are happy to throw it down the drain like this. It is a pity that YOUR investors were not as ruthless as the ones portrayed in your film. This might have given you the incentive to put some effort into your job.

The reason why the first movie was very good (I would call it even brilliant) was, that for first half an hour, you didn't know what's going on here. You saw Kutcher's childhood which was from time to time affected by blackouts and you didn't know what they are for there. As this is a sequel, the tension was missing and the guy even didn't have blackouts at all. Many times during the new movie I felt like watching the first movie and that the new one just changed a few things. For example, compare the prison scene and the scene on toilets. This movie lacks strong scenes, which are replaced by sex. Again, remember the first movie - burning of a dog, dynamite in a box, visit at Lenny's room in hospital etc. Those moments were breathtaking, quick and strong. What do you have in the second one? A lot of people hate the ending of this movie, but well...how would you end it? It would be a disgrace if it was pure happy-end and also, they couldn't do partial happy-end, if they didn't want to repeat themselves again. All in all, this flick is very mediocre and the comparing to the original movie pushes it even lower. I won't say "AVOID IT!", watch it on some evening when you want to watch TV but the only thing they broadcast is Big Brother.

When I first heard there was to be a sequel I said super! I had such great expectations, that when I had the opportunity I dumped everything else just to go and to see it. Now that I've seen it I'm not that excited. The script was not good enough, but the actors were good, very good actually. One thing I should add is that everything happens too fast. It's like they couldn't afford enough film in order to make it at least 105-115 minutes long... the action is accelerated, some parts can not be understood (due to lack of time alloted to do so). the script has (had) potential but... Overall it was less thrilling compared to the 2004 film (Ashton Kutcher was brilliant in that one), and the ending is less like you want it to be. So I recommend to all the original(2004) which was better and had a brilliant ending.

Bottom line. Bad acting, bad story, bad special effects, bad audio, bad everything.I mean, how did they dare to spoil such an incredible movie like the Butterfly Effect, with this thing? More importantly, how could the director put his name to this garbage? I just spend 20 bucks buying the DVD, cursing at myself for wasting that kind of money in this so called movie, which doesn't even deserve the title.It was so disappointing, boring and ridiculous that I couldn't even finish watching it. I thought sleeping would be a better use of my weekend time.And the special effects were terrible. The director couldn't even reproduce the original effect where Ashton went into his past. This time, the effect looks cheap, the sound effects are awful and all it does is ruin the great perception I had about the first movie.Honestly, John R. Leonetti should stick to cinematography. He just doesn't quite cut it as a director, I think he knows that after seeing his terrible film.Mr. Bress and Mr. Gruber should be very angry with the fact that he ruined their concept. Actually, they should sue him and the company that had the guts to destroy a great story, and a great film.I hope the audience realizes this, and help The Butterfly Effect 2 become the greatest failure in movie history, for it deserves it.

The Butterfly Effect 2 isn't really a sequel: besides using the same basic concept—a young man discovers that he can change the past, albeit with disastrous consequences—it is entirely unconnected with the original movie. This time around, the unfortunate sap who alters history to his detriment is young businessman Nick Larson (Eric Lively): after inadvertently twisting time to prevent the death of his girlfriend Julie (Smallville hottie Erica Durance), Nick tries to use his new found ability to change his life for the better, but only ends up making matters much worse.As the Final Destination series has proved, the same premise can be used time and time again and still result in a hugely entertaining film. Unfortunately, Butterfly Effect 2 doesn't manage to pull off the same trick, failing to emulate the dark tone of the original, Nick's unsuccessful attempts to climb the corporate ladder hardly making for gripping viewing. And with the central character becoming less and less likable with each new time-line, the film actually makes one long for the involvement of Ashton Kutcher (did I really just type that?).

I have mixed feelings about the original Butterfly Effect. I thought it was well acted and interesting but didn't care for some of the subject matter with the child abuse, animal cruelty, etc.This movie is nothing more than a no budget remake of the original that has the product values of a made for SCI-FI channel movie. The story was not interesting and it added nothing new to the genre.The movie is nothing more than an attempt to make a few quick bucks by using the name of the the original movie.I have seen comments that it is hard to follow which I disagree with completely. I found it easy to follow but incredibly boring. It simply follows the path of a guy who can look at pictures and change the past. Each time he changes the past, it turns out be worse than it was before. That is the whole movie.If you like the genre, I recommend renting Donnie Darko or watching the original Buttetfly Effect. Their is no point paying 4 bucks to rent this garbage.

So I go to blockbuster and they're having a sale buy 2 get 2 free, I couldn't find many good movies so I ended up getting The Butterfly Effect 2 as one of my free ones. The first one was amazing I thought, this one can't be too bad... Oh boy was I wrong.The movie follows a new character who seems in no way connected to Evan Treborn, (which isn't a bad thing I guess) In the movie He and his girlfriend and 2 other friends were in a car accident and of course one year later he tries to go back and change everything and screws it up. The movie was very badly written, there were many inconsistencies though out the movie such as the mentioning of a car accident when in that reality there wasn't one. This movie was not even worth picking up for free.QUOTE IMDb: The entire film was shot in 20 days.Let me tell you. it shows. IF they wanted to make a good sequel they should have actually made a prequel detailing Evan's Father's Experiences with the Butterfly Effect. Now that would have been great.To sum things up: Even if you can get a hold of the movie for free, don't.1/10

I came to this movie since I simply loved the first one, however after seeing these comments I was expecting the worse. I have to say I got more than I've expected.The movie comprises Eric Lively(Nick) as it's main character; a sales agent for a new startup. He is accompanied with the lovely Erica Durance(Julie) who is a photography artist wishing to create her own gallery some day. Nick reaches certain turning points in his life and exploits a certain schizophrenia disease he suffers from to create different realities. The filmography and acting is decent as well as a rather good storyline. I must warn you however that it is acutely similar to the first. The ideas and concepts are identical. The storyline has several differences including the ending but overall there will be many parts which will almost duplicate with the first.Ultimately, if you haven't seen "The Butterfly Effect" I strongly recommend you see this sequel, since it is merely a different version of the first. If you have seen it you probably won't enjoy it as much but it will pass a few hours by pleasantly.** 6/10

this movie doesn't deserve to be called 'the butterfly effect 2', heck it doesn't even deserve to be called a movie.TBE1 and TBE2 are on the opposite side of the chart from one another, while i looked for numbers bigger than 10 to vote for 'the butterfly effect 1', i don't even know why i'm bothering to write a comment for this so called movie.what i think Bress and Gruber should do is to sue this guy whatever his name is for making such a 'sequel' to their great movie. did he even have their permissions to create this one?And what's up with no Ashton Kutcher? after the first one, the movie would be nothing without him. I've been waiting for the butterfly effect 2 to come out since the minute the first one ends, now it does, and it's just disappointing. This movie should just change its name to something else, so i can continue to wait for the butterfly effect 2 to come, and when it does, i don't have to kick myself in the nads for spending $20 on it.

With a movie that was released straight to DVD i had no high expectations and to tell the truth, I'm glad. This movie did not live up to the standards of the first movie, but they were able to present a semi-watchable sequel. This time around the story was basically the same with the main character trying to save the woman whom he loves and just messes up his and others lives repeatedly. The story was predictable and not horribly in-depth. The one slightly high point of the movie was Erica Durance. She is a beautiful woman and has talent (as shown in Smallville) although i think that this movie doesn't allow her to fully stretch out and show the full extent of her talents. (although she does show a greater part of her other asset's) All in all i think that this movie is worth the payment of the movie rental but i don't think that really you should pay the full price of the DVD.