People who lined up to bash this film had better get used to seeing more like it. Hollywood these days is stuck in a rut where three types of films account for nearly every film they release. Those are: remakes, sequels, and films based on comic book characters. The Longest Yard would of course fit into the first category. It is a slightly updated, but fairly faithful remake of the 1974 film of the same name. This time, we have Adam Sandler who plays the incarcerated quarterback that Burt Reynolds played in the original. Reynolds is on hand to play a minor role which the original film also contained. The plot is still the same. Prisoners vs guards in a game of football. Pretty simple.Did the film make me laugh? Sure it did. There are more than a few chuckles, but not much in the way of side-splitting material. Sandler is actually not that memorable in this film. Some of the best performances actually come from people you might not expect. I was truly impressed with Nelly and Michael Irvin. Both men had their characters down, and really proved they could actually act. Chris Rock is about as good as you'd expect. Your own personal opinion of him will determine how you rate his performance. James Cromwell plays the corrupt warden about as well as you might expect. He's pretty much got the market cornered on evil white guy roles, since J.T. Walsh's untimely death. The rest of the cast becomes a game of "see if you can spot the NFL player, WWE combatant, or famous sports journalist". And what on earth was Cloris Leachman doing in the Bernadette Peters role from the original? Did she lose some kind of bet with Sandler on the set of Spanglish or something? Should this film have been made? Well, we film critics can argue that point all day. The truth of the matter is that this film grossed over $150,000,000!!! As far as the studio bosses are concerned, this film was more than worth it. This was actually one of the more profitable comedies released this year, so you can expect more like it in the near future. I'll give it 6 of 10 stars. Don't expect anywhere near the film we got in 1974. But there are plenty of worse films on the shelves at your local video store.The Hound.

The remake here was surprisingly good and pretty true to the original movie but will be most enjoyed by Adam Sandler fans or fans of the original. Except for a few exceptions to keep it up to date and a few to screw with those that saw the original, the stories are pretty much identical. The main character were all the same as well, but the supporting cast, especially the guards and cons, were changed up a bit.Former NFL quarterback Paul Crewe (Sandler, replacing the original Burt Reynolds) is arrested and faces a 3 year sentence for GTA, DUI and I am sure some other stuff which is unimportant. After his sentencing, Warden Hazen (James Cromwell) pulls a few strings to get Crewe placed in his prison so he can coach his semi-pro team. Upon the urging of Captain Knauer (William Fichtner), Crewe declines, which sets the wheels in motion for an eventual game between Crewe and the convicts against Knauer and the guards.The supporting football players were the real highlights of the movie, most notably Bob Sapp and Kevin Nash (I hate to say it but Nash did a good job. If only he was this good a wrestler), with honorable mentions to Nelly, Michael Irvin, Bill Goldberg, Steve Austin, Bill Romanowski & Brian Bosworth. Also, who could forget Chris Rock as Caretaker? This could not have been cast better.Overall, A good comedy worth seeing. Especially if you are a Sandler fan.

This remake from Robert Aldrich film deals about a professional quarterback (Adam Sandler in the role of Reynolds)is sent to high-security prison for stealing his sweetheart's car(an unbilled Courtney Cox) . There, the warden chief (James Cromwell substituting to Edward Albert) forces him to put together an inmates team to play his semi-pro made up of wardens(led by William Fitchner substituting to Ed Lauter, here playing a cameo). The disgraced quarterback is caught among brutal wardens(Brian Bosworth,Steve Austin, Todd Holland) and embittered fellows prisoners( Nicholas Turturro,Lobo Sebastian, Bill Goldberg, among others) organizing a strong cons-versus -wardens match . He's helped by sympathetic inmate(Chris Rock) and veteran player con(Burt Reynolds).This comic bone-crunching comedy is constituted by three parts, the first about introduction characters, the second part deals a football training and the third, dedicated to the game. Delightful serio-comic film about two likable crooks(Sandler, Rock), who became trainers of a motley group. This remake is as violent and humorous as the former film though no originality but rips off situations and scenes. The picture is plenty of violence, bone-crunching brutality, profanities , but also humor and amusing. Agreeable script by Tracy Keenan Wynn and production by Albert S. Ruddy , the same from Aldrich version that was remade in 2001 as ¨Mean machine¨(with Vinnie Jones Jason Statham and David Kelly) the original movie's British title. The motion picture is well directed by Peter Segal, usual director for Adam Sandler(50 first dates, Anger management) and comedies expert( Nutty professor, Naked gun: Final insult, Tommy boy) and recently filming ¨Get Smart¨. Rating: Acceptable rendition from classic movie for those who delight in football sports and crunching cruelty and with some moments very funny.

This film is an hour long commercial for ESPN as many personalities appear in on-screen roles. Michael Irvin, Dan Patrick, Jim Rome, Sean Salisbury and on down the line. McDonalds apparently paid a hefty fee to have about 20 mentions in the movie. One character is dedicated to talking only about McDonalds products.To make matters worse, there are several attempts at juvenile humor and they all fall flat. There is not a genuine laugh in the whole movie. It's stunning that Chris Rock is so funny doing stand-up and so bad in a movie. Adam Sandler's funny days are clearly behind him. Oh, and the plot is contrived and predictable--but you probably guessed that. See this movie at your own risk.

Tommy Boy good, Longest Yard BadI try not to be hypercritical of low budget films, but... You would think that having the original as a template for the remake, that at least some original thought, or effort would be made to update this already marginal film, but no. How many days were spent shooting this film? My guess is just a matter of weeks. The Longest Yard has to be the worst film of Sadler's career. I know the Director has had experience making some well crafted comedy films, I liked Tommy Boy and found it quite amusing, but "TLY" was like a long drawn out joke without a punchline. The viewer should fill insulted as well as cheated by the lack of effort made in the making of this film and had I paid to see it... (I don't want my money back, I want to be paid for my my pain and suffering). Burt Reynolds, what were you thinking? Your Macco commercials had a tighter script.

Okay, going in, I will admit freely that I am not the biggest Adam Sandler fan. I liked "Big Daddy" and I thought "Anger Management" was okay; you can have "50 First Dates". But this movie was very not bad!But, the one thing I do like about Adam Sandler is the fact that the soundtracks in his films are top-rate. And this one is no exception. Every song used in this movie fit the story and the action to a T, and I really liked that the opening chase scene featured the same song (Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Mr. Saturday Night Special") as in the original.But enough about the music. Let's talk about the movie, while it's still fresh in my mind. In a nutshell, I enjoyed it. Some plot points were changed around from the original (like relocating the prison from Florida to Texas). But for the most part, "The Longest Yard" basically follows the same exact story line of the 1974 original. I was especially surprised about the library scene, something I did not expect in today's PC society. In case you haven't seen this film (or the original) yet, then I will stop here about the story.James Cromwell slips into the shoes of Warden Hazen well, and seeing Burt Reynolds (star of the original) lend his support as Nate Scarborough was refreshing. Chris Rock, whose work I have enjoyed for years, was well-cast as Caretaker. As for Sandler, he took what was a dramatic story with funny moments into an all-out comedy with serious undertones. And, in a tip of the hat to Richard Kiel, this version of "The Longest Yard" features not one, but two XXXL players: Pro wrestler Dalip Singh (all 400 pounds of him), and heavyweight martial arts fighter Bob Sapp (whom Chris Berman himself described as a "refrigerator with legs"). Throw in some former NFL players (Brian Bosworth, Michael Irvin), more wrestlers (Bill Goldberg, Steve Austin), and a hip-hop star (Nelly), and you got yourself a team (or two). And, oh yeah... Adam Sandler's in it too (Just kidding! He does a good job here!).I liked some of the characterizations here. For example, Warden Hazen has a motivation for this football game of his (I won't say what it is, though -- That's what they call a "spoiler"); in the original, the warden just seemed absently maniacal. At the same time, Scarborough was too shallow. No offense to Burt Reynolds, but I couldn't help thinking that some people would watch this film and ask "Okay, so who's the old man on the team?"Technically, this version flowed a lot more smoothly than the original. I also like that the editing style employed in the game (as well as in a basketball scene and some of the practices) was an homage to the original. To me, it seems that Sandler wanted to honor the original, while making it his own film with its own legs at the same time. If that is so, then to me, he succeeded.If you like the original, don't be afraid to watch this. Believe me, it's worthy. If you haven't seen the original yet, then do so (After all, it's Reynolds in his prime). I won't review the original here, but I did post it.So, there it is. "The Longest Yard" excels in some spots, falls a little short in others, but this remake is worth a look.

This was the movie I've most wanted to see on DVD for some time. I love great comedy pairings, and even though in the last decade very few have worked (bar Wilson and Stiller), what else are you gonna see at the movies except a braindead action movie, a comic book adaption or an art-house movie that walk out of totally confused?Anyway, this is a remake of the 70's classic which I never saw. Basically, it's about a washed up,disgraced ex NFL star, who loses the plot one night and crashes a heap of police cars. He goes straight to prison, luckily besides the guards it looks like a lovely place to hang out. Pretty quickly the warden wants to put his football skills to the test and a guards vs crims match is set-up.It's pretty predictable, and focuses pretty much purely on the football game. There's plenty of stars in the movie, but most went into this one purely to CTC. Rock and Sandler put in pretty lazy performances, although they have a few good one-liners. The best performance comes from Terry Crewe, playing Cheeseburger Eddy. He was also great in "White Chicks", and is likely gonna keep getting these same ridiculous roles for years to come.

The Longest Yard is one of the summer blockbusters. It made near 150 million. There was a lot of talk about it and how it was becoming successful at the box office. But the critics were pretty harsh on this one. Yet, I can see why there were many bad reviews, but this is something different form Adam Sandler. His movies were always the same. The Longest Yard is a little different because it deals with something else. He had two movies that dealt with football. The Waterboy and The Longest Yard. He had the same character as he always did in The Waterboy but his character was different in The Longest Yard. Most of his movie are always funny because of the idiotic things. This is a much different movie than his others.I would have thought The Longest Yard was a lousy and cheesy comedy. It isn't. It was an entertaining comedy that I enjoyed. 7.5/10

I loved this movie! I have seen the original, also, and I have to say that this version is much more fun to watch and should appeal to a wider audience. For those who thought this was going to be a more serious movie for Adam Sandler....what on earth gave you that idea?? It's a comedy. It's meant to be funny and it is. If you are not a fan of Adam Sandler's then don't bother with it, because you won't like it. If you are a fan, I believe you will enjoy it very much. If you have absolutely no sense of humor, as it seems quite a few who have written comments about this movie are lacking just that, then don't bother with it either. I know when my husband and I saw it, the whole audience was roaring with laughter throughout the movie and my husband has informed me that he cannot wait for it to come out on DVD. It was a whole lot of fun to watch and I recommend it highly.