Walt Disney's "The Rookie" is based on the story of Jim Morris, a former minor league picher who made one of the most amazing comebacks in sports history, ending an almost 10 year retirement and making his Major League debut in 1999 at the age of 35.The film opens with a brief synopsis of Morris' childhood, which included a series of re-locations - his father was a military man. And even when his family settled for good in football crazed Texas, Morris' passion for baseball remained strong.The childhood segment then jumps ahead about 23 years to the adult Morris (played by Dennis Quaid) who is now a baseball coach and chemistry teacher at Big Lake High School (in real life it was Reagan County High School in Big Lake, Texas). It is mentioned that he attempted a career as a baseball player but that it didn't work out.Morris's team is struggling and he lectures them about giving up on their dreams. They turn the table on him, telling him that he should try out for a Major League team. At several times when he pitches to them in practice, they express amazement at the speed with which he throws. Morris seems unconvinced but agrees to a deal with his players in which if they win district, he will try out for a Major League team.Big Lake does win district and, adhering to his end of the deal, Morris attends a Tampa Bay Devil Rays try out. Phenomenally, he throws 98 miles an hour - faster than he threw during his minor league career and an outstanding speed even for a Major League pitcher. After another try out with the team, Morris is offered a contract with the Devil Rays.This leaves him with a tough decision - stay in his comfortable life or once again pursue his Major League dream by going through the minor league grind of making little money and spending months at a time away from home. And the decision is even more agonizing than during his first minor league stint because he now has a wife and three children.Morris signs with the Devil Rays, begins at the AA level and moves up quickly to the AAA level, one level below Major League Baseball. But as the season winds down, the chances of him getting "called up" grow increasingly slim.For the most part, I love this movie. There are lots of great performances and likable characters and it's easy to find yourself really pulling for Morris. Also, the movie does a great job portraying professional baseball at both the major and minor league levels. And most of all, it teaches the timeless message of holding tight to your dreams even when they seem distant and almost impossible to achieve.Still, the movie has some flaws. While generally accurate, it exaggerates and even fabricates a few things. Check out http://espn.go.com/page2/s/closer/020410.html for some examples. Also, except for one scene in which he prays with his players, the movie completely ignores Morris' Christian faith. But considering Disney's left wing zeal, that's not surprising.Presumably, a lot of the exaggerations/fabrications were done to make the story more dramatic. Yet the 20 minute documentary on Morris that is included on the DVD features some information that makes his story more dramatic but is excluded from the movie.For example, from birth until his family settled in Texas for good when he was 12, Morris re-located 14 times. And his initial minor league career ended after four surgeries through which he lost half of the muscle in his left (pitching) shoulder, thus making his throwing 98 mph even more inexplicable.To fully appreciate and understand the story of Jim Morris, it's good to not only watch "The Rookie" but to watch the DVD's documentary, check out the aforementioned link to the movie's inaccuracies and probably also to read Morris' biography, also titled "The Rookie." I haven't read the book but I hope to one of these days.But overall, "The Rookie" is a very good portrayal of a miraculous story and is a powerful testament to the power of dreams and the triumph of the common man. 8/10

A fine story about following your dreams and actually taking a stab at Doing something about them when the chance strikes. Nothing was easy for Morris either-he had a family, job, job opps elsewheres, a mortgage, etc-it wasn't like he could just drop what he was doing and blithely hop on the greyhound to play AAA ball for 4 months. It took guts. I am glad that they showed his indecision, almost up 'til he got the callup to the majors.
I can remember seeing him pitch against the Red Sox(I think...), it was a great story. Though Morris actually looks more like John Kruk or a Mills Watson than Quaid-that's okay. Quaid does a very good job playing the man, the teacher, coach and 'oldest rookie'.... As someone who is in the the same age group, I certainly can ID with his plight. You're not Quite too old to do what you had dreamed of as a kid, but it's getting there. You have to do it sooner than lator.Believably told, nicely edited, paced, acted, good to see the familiar faces of the late Royce Applegate, Brian Cox and Rachel Griffiths here.
Good job all around, glad to see it hit.*** outta ****...who woulda thought that the Tampa Devil Rays woulda been the subject of such a good movie early on?

Jimmy Morris' passion for baseball dominated his life. The son of a Navy recruiter, Jimmy was forced to move from town to town, leaving behind his dreams of playing a major leagues, specially after arriving in the remote Big Lake, Texas, where it appears his father had his longest tour of duty. To make matters worse, football was the favorite sport.The story, which starts during the early years of the Morris' arrival in Big Lake, changes to show us a grown Jimmy, now married, and the father of two children, managing the local high school team. Jim, who evidently tried a spot in the majors, got injured, and is resigned to the kind of life he didn't want back in his youth. One thing he never loses is the speed in which he throws a baseball. That quality will ultimately be the factor that will win him a spot with the Tampa Bay major league team, where he will make a name for himself, realizing his dream of playing professional baseball.John Lee Hancock, the director of the film, written by Mike Rich, gives us a glimpse on the life of a man who never gave up his desire for being part of the sport that he loved. Supposedly, this picture is based on the real Jim Morris, who went to make a name for himself because of the gift he brought to the game.It's impossible not to like the earnest performance of Dennis Quaid, an actor that is always reliable to give his best. The star is surrounded by the excellent Rachel Griffiths, relegated here to be the saintly Mrs. Morris, and Brian Cox, one of the best character actors working in movies today. Also Beth Grant shows up as Jim's mother. The film doesn't surprise, since we know where it will end, eventually, but it is a labor of love from Mr. Hancock and all the people involved in the project.

I love it when they actually do a sports story well. So many in the past have been so hokey it was embarrassing to watch. Not this one. It's just a genuinely nice movie, an old-fashioned type of story - and based on a real-life guy to did exactly what Dennis Quaid did in this film. He plays a high school coach who is talked into trying out, late in life athletically-speaking, to become a pitcher in professional baseball. Eventually, he reaches his goal of making it to the Major Leagues, even if it was a very brief stint.All the characters in here are nice people, the kind you root for, from Quaid to the players on his high school team, to his little boy (Angus T. Jones, now somewhat of a star on television.)Quaid is believable in playing Jim Morris because, unlike actors in the past in sports films, he knows how to throw a baseball. He looks like a pitcher, a guy who could fire it 90-plus miles per hour. And, most of this film is true, as testified by the real-life pitcher in one the documentaries on the DVD.So, if you're looking for a nice, inspirational true life sports film, you can't wrong with this one.

The Rookie is directed by John Lee Hancock and written by Mike Rich. It stars Dennis Quaid, Rachel Griffiths, Jay Hernandez, Brian Cox, Angus T. Jones, Rick Gonzalez and Angelo Spizzirri. Music is by Carter Burwell and cinematography by John Schwartzman.Out of Walt Disney Productions, The Rookie is based on the true story of 35 year old teacher and school baseball coach Jim Morris (Quaid). Who having thought his chance of making it to the major leagues in Baseball had long since gone, his minor league career curtailed by a shoulder injury, got that second chance and became the oldest rookie around.What an absolute treat! A sports movie that inspires and uplifts whilst never resorting to cloying tactics or Hollywood sprucing story additions. First off the bat is that the film is unhurried in pace, time is afforded Morris and his family as well as the key issues that lead to his moment of fulfilment. Secondly is the bare honesty of the story, and that of the portrayals by a wonderful Quaid (at 47 here playing a 35 year old) and a likewise Griffiths. We are not going to be arriving at some monumental cliff-hanger finale (as per most other sports movies), history tells us that Morris made a minimal impact in his two years in the majors, this takes us to an earthy and achievable goal being attained.Just prior to Morris making his bow at Arlington Stadium, we have seen the love of a husband and father who is separated from his family. He's out on the road playing ball, the emotional tug pulling him everywhere. There's money worries back home as well, really Jim would be better served back there, surely? All of this sounds like a recipe for sappy crappy time, but it's not, it's all beautifully handled by director and actors alike. The baseball scenes are smooth, the score and photography pristine in their execution (it's a Blu-ray must have), there is just no waste here. There's a rich human story to be told and wasting time on incidentals would be wrong, and Hancock knows this and never puts a foot wrong.Heart warming and impeccably mounted, The Rookie is one of the greatest baseball films out there. But, and here's the thing, it's as much about life and its challenges as it is about fast balls and hot-dogs. 9/10

My only criticism of this movie is that it's a bit long, as they try to fit two stories into one. Would've been fairly easy to make an entire movie of the first half--a baseball coach who inspires his under- achieving team to rally and win district, then an entirely different movie of the second half--a 30-something science teacher giving himself one last chance to make the big leagues.For me, this movie is right up there with other great sports movies, such as Hoosiers, Miracle, and Chariots of Fire. Perhaps not quite at that level, but the story is great and definitely inspiring. Even if you're not a baseball fan, you can appreciate the emphasis this movie puts on the realities and pressures that families face every day in balancing work and taking care of the kids. And I love that they bring out the challenges of minor league baseball--long bus rides, very little income, and away from family for months at a time.My favorite scene is after Jim finishes his tryout and is walking back to his truck, the scout comes up to tell him that he, although almost twice the other kids' age, actually threw 98 mph. The scout tells Jim that if he doesn't call it in he's gonna get fired and that Jim can expect to get a phone call. Just wish he'd throw away the dirty diaper!

This is one of those movies that I can say is well-crafted, yet I can also say I was pretty bored through most of it.  "The Rookie" is a Disney production, yet it doesn't have that Disney feel.  And it doesn't feel G-rated either.  In fact, this movie does a fine job at avoiding overused cliches in the genre of sports dramas and stands on its own two feet.  The premise of a high school science teacher suddenly becoming a major league ballplayer seems a little far-fetched, but it's a true story!  So I can't complain it was unconvincing.  The performances are terrific.  Dennis Quaid is good in virtually every movie he does, and he again delivers a subtle, convincing performance.  Brian Cox is great as his workaholic father, who tries to convince him that there's more to life than baseball.  Rachel Griffiths is perfectly cast as Quaid's wife, who also tries to discourage him from baseball.  Though Griffiths is Australian, I don't think any American actress could've played her role better, and she perfectly dons a Texas accent.  I have few bad things to say about "The Rookie" other than it was long and dull.  I didn't enjoy the overuse of country music on the soundtrack, though I know that it was used simply to give the movie a Texas feel.  You can't expect the soundtrack to include Metallica!  And though the movie does a pretty good job at avoiding cliches, there are still a few that exist.  Like what I was talking about earlier, about Quaid's wife and father discouraging him from baseball.  There's one scene where his Dad gives him a speech/monologue--standing inside the house, many feet away from his son--about how there's more to life than baseball.  Done with his speech, he closes the door and goes back into the house.  No "Goodbye son" or anything like that.  Then he comes home and his wife gives him the same speech, only she goes outside to the porch to apologize to him minutes later and they give each other the "you were right, I was wrong" run-around.  Another problem is the film takes too much time stressing the fact that Jimmy Morris is a brilliant pitcher.  I think if the director cut out most of his pitching scenes, the movie would be about 85 minutes.  Now, I love that scene in which he pulls off to the side of the road to practice pitching by throwing the ball towards a meter, which measures the speeds of passing cars.  The meter reads 76 MPH.  Then when he goes to pick up the ball, we watch as it changes to 96 MPH.  Once we watch that scene, we already know that he's a brilliant pitcher, we don't need it pounded into our skulls.  I don't even know how good of a batter he is, because they never show him at bat!  There's a good deal of things I give this movie credit for, but all in all it just doesn't deliver.  Sure, it doesn't have the formula cliches of last year's "Hardball," but it also doesn't have the charm and fun of "Hardball." I wasn't uplifted, nor entertained, so this movie pretty much left me cold. My score:  5 (out of 10)

This effort is based on the true story of Jim  Morris, a high school science teacher/baseball coach, who is inspired by his players to try out for the pros and fulfill his life-long dream of playing in the majors.  Dennis Quaid, no stranger to sports films, plays Morris with enough conviction to make the part work and the producers do a credible job of recreating the real-world events that led to Morris brief stint as a relief pitcher for the woefull Tampa Bay Devil Rays. The first half of the film, dealing with his rag tag bunch of High School Baseball players (all of whom look way too old to actualy be in High School) is less effective and probably a bit too long. Overall the film does suffer from some pacing issues and a few extra subplots that we probably could have done without. However, it is still a fairly involving movie with an inspirational theme that proves once again that baseball is the national pastime for a reason. GRADE: B-

Following Disney's purest tradition, "The Rookie" tells a story of hope and believing in yourself.This film is actually a two-in-one combo. The first half is the story of the bad (baseball) team that, through some hard work and inspiration from their coach, come all the way from behind to win the championship. This movie we have seen tons of times ("Hardball", "Mighty Ducks", "Little Giants", etc, etc.). There are very few references to the Jimmy Morris tale during this first half.The second half is all about Jimmy Morris and his struggle to pursue a long lost dream: become a major league baseball player. He is driven to gain self-confidence, hope and ultimately courage to take a shot at his dream; even when he's old enough to be retiring from instead of entering professional baseball. On the other hand, he has a family to take care of and a decent job he would be turning down to go after a potential lost cause.All in all I think this movie is a story of courage. It takes lots of it to go after something you forgot you wanted more than anything; that and a very supporting family. The fact that this is a true story makes this point even more significant.The movie itself may seem a little bit too long for it's purpose, specially the first half which didn't need so much detail, but it takes its message across well enough.

I liked the director's comment (on the DVD) that "you couldn't make this movie if it wasn't true".  He is absolutely right.  It is an unbelievable story, especially for anyone who wishes to have "just one more chance" at their youth.Quaid gives an excellent restrained performance.  An Army brat raised all over the place, but finally in Texas, he has charm and humor and a solid cowboy-like presence.  The boy who played his oldest child was wonderful, if at the cost of making the other children cardboard characters.Surrounding Quaid and his son are a wealth of characters, from Brian Cox (becoming one of my favorite character actors) as his father (as someone who lost several years with his father through mutual bullheadedness this was tough to watch), to the townspeople (especially the guy at the general store), to Rachel Griffiths as his believably attractive wife, all playing against the beautiful background of west Texas, we have a finely crafted piece of cinema.While bordering on maudlin, it never crosses over, Quaid plays stolid enough that the flashes of his smile are welcomed and his face as he pitches show the fastballer who only knows one way to throw.

It's pretty good overall but personally didn't like it that much