The movie concerns a hapless chauffeur called Tong (Jackie Chan) who hiding himself from a secret agent (Jason Isaacs) wears his special gadget-laden tuxedo with extraordinary powers . This discovery thrusts Tong into world of international espionage and intrigue and pairs him with an inexperienced colleague . As Jackie Chan and another agent (Jennifer Lowe Hewitt) will have to take on a villain who's wanting to rule over the world . From start to finish humor and action-packed is interminable . In the film there are intrigue , tongue in cheek , pursuits , frenetic action and includes lots of fun . The movie didn't fail at the box office and neither was a real success .Action carried out by Jackie Chan was realized by means of specials effects to difference other films in which he made his own stunts . Jennifer Hewitt is pretty gorgeous making with Jackie Chan a type of ¨Buddy movie¨ film . Final confrontation between starring and the baddies is breathtaking and astounding . The picture will appeal to Jackie Chan fans.Rating : 5,5/10 nice and entertaining .

although both jackie and jennifer do well with this lazy, confused script ultimately this film falls flat. a jackie chan film first and foremost is a vehicle enabling us to see jackies martial arts talents and physical comedy. The premise was childish and at times i found myself cringing with embarrassment which is unheard of im a huge jackie fan and have been since battle creek brawl. Lets face it it doesnt take much to please us rush hour 1 and 2 shanghai noon mr nice guy etc have been fantastic. just put jackie in lots of imaginitive fight scenes with a comedy sidekick or indeed police story just imaginitive fight scenes. But with the tuxedo a lot of the fight scenes have been matrixed up and are cgi'd which we dont expect from jackie. the actual plot was like something from the english school film foundation. Lets hope shanghai knights and highbinders are better.

What a shame to see Jackie Chan's talents wasted with a bunch of kung fu wires to leap in the air with.   The whole joy of watching his movies is the sheer talent and relentless energy he demonstrates while doing all of his own stunts.   Leave the wires to those who really need them.

This movie is occasionally funny if you don't get bogged down in trying to figure out the plot holes.  Jennifer Love Hewitt is attractive and charming, but absolutely nothing her character does makes sense.  Is she a secret agent, a secret double agent, or a secret triple agent?  Does she have a sly sense of humor or is she merely tolerating someone else's sexist humor?  Is she a skilled martial combatant or an incredible lucky newbie?  The script never makes any of this clear.  It's like this movie was written to make her look stupid (attractive, but stupid).Jackie Chan's moves are entertaining, but as an action flick this is probably one of his worst.  The problem is that in the story he's wearing a near-magical tuxedo that gives him superhuman powers.  Instead of knowing that everything you see is Jackie busting his butt doing his own stunts, you're watching special effects ginned up with wires, blue screen, and computer enhancement.  It's more like watching a Superman movie than a Jackie Chan flick.Overall I'd give this movie a 3/10.  Watching it is better than doing nothing for 90 minutes, as long as you're not paying much for the privilege.

Golden Harvest production would have probably used quarter of the budget and made a fantastic movie out of this, can't believe Dreamworks funded this production. Worst Jackie Chan movie ever.

Jackie Chan is at it again! In the movie "The Tuxedo", he's a chauffeur who ends up becoming a spy wannabe. Now being a spy isn't a easy job, you got to be fearless. No problem. But clueless, that's a problem. When the man he's chauffeuring is out of action, he steps up to the plate and takes his place. His partner Del Blaine(Jennifer Love Hewitt) has some type of issues in her. Very uptight, and so unwilling to open up, Jimmy Tong(Chan) does his little magic on her. The scenes are fantastic. The fight scenes are classic, and one when he encounters "The Godfather of Soul". Yep, it's James Brown! It's funny when he tells Tong to "enjoy the show". His suit takes him out accidentally. And the suit helped him do the moves J.B. does. I know that Jackie Chan is a little shy about his dance moves, but James Brown is a demanding individual. He wants the dance moves to be perfect. Of course when they did their scene together, J.B. says, "You're fast, but I'm faster!" In dancing yes, but martial arts? I don't think so! In real life J.B. did meet his match in the show business, but he's not jealous of J.C. Everyone in the movie deserve their spot in recognition. Jennifer Love Hewitt can kick butt too. Ever since "I Know What You Did Last Summer", she was tough. In "The Tuxedo" she kicked it up a notch. Great movie! 2.5 out of 5 stars!

Jackie Chan has reached a new low, and it is this film. While some of his more recent films can be forgiven, this one tends to be one of his duller and less satisfying moments. While rush Hour and Rush Hour 2 offered some charm from the dynamic master of bodily contortions, this film just didn't reach that same aura of incredulity. Maybe this is a warning to Jackie: stop making films where CGI and wires are needed. If you can't do it, then don't. While it did have some potential, the antagonist just didn't seem bad enough, kind of like Jonathan Price in Tomorrow Never Dies. Sad, and I thought that whole Jennifer Love Hewitt dynamic might aid the film.

I really enjoyed this movie.  I don't think that there's anything wrong with letting Jackie slow down the pace of the action a little bit and focus more on acting.  Jackie is a good actor, especially when it comes to comedy, but that is frequently overshadowed by the action in his movies.  Without his acting ability his early movies would have been indistinguishable from any of a hundred other kung fu movies from the same era and he probably would have retired long ago.No, this movie isn't exactly the same as his others.  Jackie's stunts are now assisted by technology a little bit, but it really is just a little bit. It's not like Matrix Reloaded or Blade II where once the action gets a little hectic the actors are just replaced by CG models.
Let Jackie act a little bit.  There has always been more to him than his ability to jump off buildings.I thought that Jennifer Love Hewitt was a lot of fun to watch, too.  I haven't seen much of her work, but I think that her comedic instincts look pretty strong.

As this is not the best action movie and not the best Jackie Chan movie either, it does have some positive sides to this movie also. The plot seems to be original as a taxi driver gets a job driving a limo for a millionaire guy. After an accident, the Jackie Chan character finds himself in his special tuxedo that the millionaire guy wore. That tuxedo has special powers and so the plot goes. There were a few good action scenes in The Tuxedo and some humor as well but maybe this movie could of used some better dialogue script in it. This movie does also come as just another Jackie Chan type clone of a film where he does about the same stunts he does in all his other movies.

I'm sorry to say that this movie is NOT at ALL the quality of Action/Comedy that we are used to Jackie delivering. If you love Jackie as I do, and put "Shanghai Noon" as one of the favourites then you will be disapointed. The movie lacks actually everything. The chemistry between Jackie, and Love H. is really not there, he seems for the first time a little bit un-interested, and the plot is really not good. This movie is probably a must see for fans of "Spy Kids", but for us "older" Jackie fans I will wait for the coming Shanghai Knights. Owen Wilson and Jackie made Shanghai Noon a success based on a funny plot, and an AMAZING chemistry between them.
Jackie you rock, but you can do better than this - it's not the amount of movies but the originality and fun that we are used to you delivering that makes your movies so special!:) M