BDT and TLJ are both in top form here. Del Toro gives us prescient glimpses of 'Sicario,' while Jones serves us up a two-finger shot of his 'US Marshalls' character with a sort of 'Life Below Zero' twist added to the rim of the glass.The Hunted is clearly inspired by the famous short story, "The Most Dangerous Game." However, Hunted manages to flip "The Most Dangerous Game" on its axis by giving us a primally brutal wolf fight between two alphas instead of TMDG's original novel of helpless souls wandering into a rich psychopath's well-placed bear trap. This time around, it's not an expert killer hunting down a fatigued cast-away with no combat experience but instead two special-operations-capable-veterans-turned-bushcraft-survivalists testing each other's capabilities and prowess to their absolute limits.But there's also a little more complexity to The Hunted than just a life or death versus match between two hardened soloists in the bush. The movie also explores the horrors of war on the psyche, the way such unbridled brutality erodes even the soundest of minds when time progresses, and how PTSD can deconstruct a person at their very core.This movie is harrowing at some points, particularly during the war crime flashbacks that are absolutely barbaric like the desecration of skeletons and mass Graves being filled with groups of living prisoners who are than obliterated at point blank with M249 SAWs weilded by laughing guerilla fighters.There's a thick air of tension that runs through the entirety of the film's run time, something I would largely attribute to three things: it's realistic, intense violent subject matter; it's lack of a consistent music score flooding the speakers every five minutes and sparse dialogue; it's setting mostly taking place in the desolate bush. It's quiet, lethal and bloody--just like BDT's sadistic knife weilding character.The Hunted is a unique action movie that deserves your time. Its pacing is slow and methodical, purposefully scripted as such to match the film's title no doubt. The slow burn of the story and the film's execution is almost reminiscent of a 70s film before massive explosions and ridiculous, cheesy one liners from steroided freaks took the genre over; back when movies were smarter and crafted with more earnest and inspiration. It's also a recommended watch if you're into Bushcraft survivalism or military drama--much of The Hunted feels like you're watching the first day of SERE school when you're being dropped into the forest.7/10, one of BDT and TLJ's best.

This is one of those movies that people will either love or hate. It has it's flaws for sure, but this movie speaks to primitive, macho mano-a-mano movie lovers.How realistic the knife fights are in this movie remains to be seen, although kali, the martial art used as the base for the fight scenes, is a powerful fighting style. But they are exciting to watch, and both Jones and del Toro inhabit their characters with enough gusto and panache that the movie can be very enjoyable to watch.It definitely won't be everyone's cup of tea, but the Hunted will make lots of action movie and martial arts movie fans pleased and satisfied.

How could they have made this story better. There wasn't a need for more dialog or love story and the fight scenes were amazingly well done. Tommy Lee Jones and Benicio Del Toro played expertly off one another. I didn't flash onto another film when I was watching this. I was surprised to read a comparison to Rambo. What? How is that even possible. Other than the military theme (which is rather minimal in this film, since Aaron could have easily been CIA, etc.) and people being killed, what is the connection? While Rambo is gory and violent and rather gratuitous, The Hunted is none of these. The worst we get with the "killings" are a few glimpses of *photos* if the hunters killed at the beginning of the film. I guess this is a thinking man's action film and for those that don't want to think, they will be quick to put it down.

Some movies are made just for action, some just for story.Unfortunately, the Hunted doesn't seem to fit either category.There is not much depth to the story here, although they try hard to make it seem that way.Simply: A killing machine is on the loose, so they send the guy who trained him to get him. No side story needed to forward the plot.Tommy Lee Jones gives a decent performance as L.T. Bonham, the "hunter". Nothing spectacular, but not bad either.Benicio del Toro gives a good performance as Aarom Hallam, the killing machine who does not give much purpose as to why he IS a killing machine.Connie Nielsen and Jose Zuniga are OK as FBI agents Durrell and Moret.There were some great action scenes, and a few interesting moments. I wouldn't call them extraordinary though.Over all: OK movie. Watch if you have nothing better to do.5/10

The movie is pretty well-produced overall, though there are a couple of glaring editing goof-ups (the knife being dunked into water, for example.) And the fact that it's clear Jones and Del Toro are doing much of their own stuntwork in the fighting sequences (and other places) is pretty impressive.
However, there is really nothing of substance here that will make you remember the movie long after you've seen it. While the action gets bloody at times, the actual struggling around is only okay at best. The Jones and Del Toro characters are thin, with little background revealed about them, and they don't have that much dialogue. There are some interesting themes that start to peek out, but they are simply not expanded on. (Like: Why didn't Jones' character answer those letters he got? You have to hear the explanation from director Friedkin on one of the DVD documentaries!) Ultimately, the movie becomes a simple-minded action movie, of the mentality of many direct-to-video movies.A P.S. to Hollywood filmmakers: If it is heavily snowing in British Columbia, it is HIGHLY UNLIKELY that at the same time it would be sunny and warm in Oregon! The weather patterns in both places are more or less the same!

"The hunted" is an accelerated version of the mythical cat and the mice chase. Given in between some theme taming by the captious master William Friedkin, the script sticks in squirming the hunting minds and souls of two alike yet different snoopers dedicate to hunt: one hunts phsycologically and the other likes to hunt...well, humans.The woods glow, the snow falls quiet and welcoming. The city envelops a new layer in the middle part of the movie for the characters to run more, to fasten their rates and hide and run again. Tomy Lee Jones is a gazing panther, sleek and aware making treats with the Wind. Some supporting, efficient actors and a great camera work profit the respiratory rate of the main organ of this movie: action. See it expecting not for a masterpiece; a nice time. It is hard to know the impact it will create on someone; you have to study their personalities to see if they will be attracted by this daring chase. P.D-You have to prepare your chills thus the knifes cut and slash effectively and the two characters shed some blood

This movie contains some of the best motivated and choreographed knife fights. The narrative is a mixed bag but is anchored by solid performances and good visual direction.It's not a great movie in its entirety but for the best parts I give it a seven and a recommendation to watch.

When you see a movie with Benicio Del Toro and Tommy Lee Jones on the front, you expect a half decent movie. To be honest, I'm shocked Benicio agreed to such a half assed project.The plot is thin at best, and gets thinner throughout the movie. There's no real explanation given for the characters actions. Relationships between characters are non existant, and it's hard to see why they bothered casting anyone but Jones and Del Toro since all the other characters are without direction or purpose.In the end we come to a predictable outcome and with very little idea why any of this happened.********Minor Spoilers************"guy goes to war. guy sees bad stuff. guy wakes up in middle of night. guy starts killing randomly" is not adequate explanation. the movie required a lot more detail surrounding del toros descent into madness. flashbacks of things that happened between the time of him returning and the killings in the woods would have helped, or some more development on his dreams.

A soldier (Benicio del Toro) with PTSD takes to the Portland, Oregon woods in Rambo-like fashion. He's paranoid and kills a couple of businessmen from nearby Medford who were weekend deer hunters. The soldier believed the men were CIA spooks sent to find him. The film reveals that he's a Special Forces operator named Aaron Hallam who is AWOL. Hallam is shown to be haunted by his service during the Kosovo War, where he assassinated high priority targets with his hand-forged combat knife. The knife and others like it were forged by Hallam and the others he trained with and is a weapon of significance in the film. An FBI-led manhunt manhunt begins with Special Agent Abby Durrell (Connie Nielsen), who's assisted by L.T. Bonham (Tommy Lee Jones). Bonham was a civilian survival and combatives expert who instructed Hallam during his advanced training. Bonham is a recluse but the FBI bring him into the investigation as a consultant. He's able to identify the specific type of knife and footwear, a moccasin with no tread, used by the killer. It turns out Hallam felt a paternal connection to Bonham that the latter didn't reciprocate. Bonham reveals during a conversation with Durrell that he was never in the armed forces because his father, an Army colonel, had kept him from enlisting after his older brother was killed in Vietnam. His father was also an outdoorsman and survivalist who taught Bonham everything he knew. Hallam becomes more violent and dangerous as the manhunt for him tightens and increases in size. Bonham and Hallam are forced to confront each other in a strange almost kung fu movie style student-mentor battle. There are a few problems I had with this movie. Why would a Special Forces soldier have a hand-forged knife as his only weapon? If the FBI and police had arrested an armed and dangerous fugitive with specialized military training wouldn't he be in a maximum security lock up? A civilian would probably not be allowed to interrogate him either. Oh, well. The Oregon wilderness of Silver Falls State Park where the wilderness scenes were shot is magnificently beautiful. The combat is intense and well-choreographed. It was base on the Filipino martial art of Kali. Kali relies on close-quarters grappling, striking, stick and of course knife fighting. It resembles the close combat style featured in the Bourne films with Matt Damon.

True to his action thriller credentials even when Friedkin flops it's more a train wreck than a dud.Poor acting from great actors, terrible plotting & scene transitions, an inevitable car chase more an embarrassment to the genre than an homage to his former mastery, what else... well let's start from the beginning.Supposedly set in a Kosovo village, we open with a scene, for all it's over-done pyrotechnics, more reminiscent of an oil refinery disaster than ethnic cleansing massacre, proving that Friedkin has no immunity to the plague of CGI overkill. The Serbians evil-doers are so poorly directed, that they fail to take even the simplest of precautions during explosions and bombings preferring instead it seems to just keep maniacally slaying the odd clump of villagers made up mothers and clean, cute, little girls, shot in multiple close-up vignettes lest we idiots in the back row fail to notice the pathos.Del Toro's Hallem is somehow, not shown, pushed over the edge by this, or something. Anyway, we end up years later in a forest where he goes after some hunters with a knife displaying ghost-like skill missing later in the movie. The hunters seem to know that they are to be hunted and react to hearing a disembodied voice in the woods by turning their guns in his direction. Or maybe they were just really paranoid? I dunno. So they die and in comes Jones' Bonham, a back woods tracker who happens to also be Hallem's old combat/survival trainer from long ago. Okie dokie. Of course the FBI have to defer to Bonham and let him 'track' Hallem all over the woods and through Portland as well giving us the framework of the flick.Jone's looks old and tired in this movie and I never once believed he was up to the numerous combats he has with Del Torro, but he also delivers his lines in a clipped unconvincing fashion. Speaking of bad acting, Del Torro seems to put little thought into his delivery or character. What to make of these two fine actors slumming through this movie?The knife fighting was fun and mainly well done and the forest scenery was pretty, but we would have done just as well with Stallone and Richard Crenna reprising their original roles, and sadly, Kotcheff too.

Its pretty sad when after the first half hour, you're already thinking "how are they going to kill the next forty minutes?"The entire plot...lock, stock and barrel, is played, replayed, and replayed over and over with just enough variation to make you wish that they had done it once well instead of half assed many times. Nut job escapes into wilderness, gets chased, gets caught, does it again. Lather rinse repeat.Just for additional torture, we get all sorts of missed opportunities that could have made this movie  bearable.but instead wind up as clichés that feel like they're only there JUST IN CASE we might wind up with some sympathy for Benicio Del Toro. He's a war hero that can't take it anymore; he dupes a woman into taking him in and lying for him; he views his trainer as the father he never had; he marks passages in the Bible. All these things that could have developed into something interesting are left flapping almost as if they're only there because no whacked out guy in the woods movie should be without them.Why did this man join the military? How did he get into Special Forces? What was his relationship with L.T? What was his relationship with this woman like? What about the kid.is it his? Sadly, we'll never know but it sure does provide a nice distraction to think about when he evades capture..for the third time.The fight scenes, while especially bloody and personal, are something of a disappointment. Granted, they're probably more realistic this way, but they pretty much boil down to two middle aged men slapping each other and rolling around in the dirt. You WANT it to be exciting, but it just doesn't deliver. Same goes for the cat and mouse escape and evade scenes. You want them to be suspenseful, but a camera cutting away, returning to the same spot and, *SURPRISE!* he's not there anymore!, just isn't edge of your seat material.In one of the most predictable moments in the film, L.T. reads a letter addressed to him from our nutty soldier saying that the people after him are robots.If only it were true..