There are only three other reviews here so far: two give this 10 (Err... two different named reviewers, identical reviews, duplicate memo to PR team please....idiots) and the other 1 so let's assume some will love this and others will hate it. I'll try to review it....Plot: pretty easy sell, every seven years the top assassins hold the tournament; they kill each other until the last survivor wins it all; all organized, tracked, and betted on by billionaires, of course.The whole thing is kind of like no limit hold'em.... but they can't all dodge bullets, baby. Think Tekken and you're not in the right area, it is better than Uwe Boll and that ilk.Not quite lineage as Guy Ritchie (Obviously) but only needing Jason Stratham this is exactly what is says on the box: an out and out kill or be killed cartoonish film.Filming is good, nothing too dark or menacing but just nice.It's not Battle Royale but if action is your thing and you liked Death Race 2000, Shoot Em'Up or Wanted then you'll be happy enough.Any gripes about morality are irrelevant here, this is in a moral vacuum, and so are plot holes, logic, or how heads explode like watermelons, this is either your type of film or you should really it avoid totally.Yep, it's violent - limbs fly, people die in well, imaginative ways - but it is not horror.It's all well put together, nicely cast, and creates enough interest; better than just hunt or be hunted there is a real plot and even character development...Oh and great to choose Middlesborough, seriously one of the ugliest, most desolate pile of concrete crap evaar...ha ha....shooting it up the kyber pass can only improve it....This is a movie to watch with mates and wince and cheer to....

No two ways about it, The Tournament is one hell of a bloody silly film, stretching plausibility way beyond breaking point, but that doesn't stop it from being quite a bit of fun.Every seven years, in an ordinary town, an extraordinary event takes place: the worlds top 30 assassins meet for The Tournament, a fight to the death that sees the winner pick up a cool $10million in prize money. This time around, the arena is Middlesbrough in the UK. That's right, Middlesbrough. Not London, not Manchester, not even Liverpool or Birmingham, but Middlesbrough, which must have the highest concentration of CCTV cameras in the country, for the whole event is broadcast live for the benefit of rich gamblers, who bet on the outcome (even a fight that takes place inside a disused church is somehow broadcast to the punters). It's also clearly not got much of a police force, for there is no sign of the law as Middlesbrough is turned into a battleground.To ensure that each killer is able to identify the other players, tracking devices have been implanted in their stomachs; these gadgets are also explosive, so if a player gets out of line, they can be instantly 'withdrawn' from the game (with satisfyingly messy results). Favourite for the latest Tournament is the previous winner, Joshua Harlow (Ving Rhames), who is seeking revenge for the murder of his wife. Unwittingly taking part is alcoholic priest Father MacAvoy (Robert Carlyle) who accidentally swallows one of the tracking devices.As I have already said, the idea that such a contest would and could take place in a town such as Middlesbrough without the immediate intervention of the armed police is ludicrous, but with lots of ballistic action (bullet squibs), martial arts, exploding bodies, impressive parkour, and plenty of vehicular carnage, plus the added bonus of the beautiful Kelly Hu as sexy assassin Lai Lai Zhen, The Tournament is mindlessly entertaining for the duration and should keep most undemanding action fans happy through its sheer energy.

When I saw the trailer for this film I immediately thought The Tournemnt had potential to be one of best action films of the last years, unfortunately that's not the case. The premise is very interesting even if flawed; every seven years somewhere in the planet(usually in a random city) a tournament between the world's deadliest assassins takes place. 30 assassins fight against each other in a bloody battle royale hoping to survive. The last one standing wins the tournament and receives a cash prize and more importantly the title of world nº1 assassin. This is obviously a receipt for lots of action,fighting,blood,death and so on... But as much as I love the concept, the movie felt short of my expectations...there are a couple of well done fighting scenes but overall the action in the film is not nearly as spectacular as the trailer led me to believe, it's just not impressive at all considering other action films that have been done before, and the few twists in the story are very easily predictable. The acting was average, while Ian Somerholder and others did a good job, Ving Rhames, for instance, was constantly over-acting. The tournament could have been amazing,instead it is a forgettable movie with a few more or less known actors that doesn't deliver what it promised.5.5/10

There has been so much trash released over the past couple of years, however The Tournament is one of those fun trashy movies that hits the action spot very nicely, what we have is a game that takes place every 7 years and 30 top assassins play out for the top prize, and yes they have to kill each other to win 10 million, a bug has been placed inside them so they can track each other down and a bunch of rich folk place there bets in who will win.. Well thats pretty much the plot.. So what now follows is a Battle Royal kill fest, and boy do we have some brutal and bloody kills, the film makers were smart to even through in some nudity...and hey presto we have another trashy exploitation movie, but this one kinda rocks, it will remind you of other movies you have seen...like Battle Royal, The Running Man, and even Gamer, so don't expect anything original but there are some nice set pieces, blood gets splattered all over the place and oh... did i even mention that there is some nudity?

A series of TV news reports are shown about acts of violence across the globe ; gunfights , crossfire , assaults , explosions , terrorist attacks, and other acts of murder, both small and larger scale . In some of these reports, the newscasters say that authorities are dismissing some of the random explosions as accidental. Television is really controlled and a sadistic game show is followed by wealthy people betting amount of dollars and it has become the most popular program . The TV game run by a director (Liam Cunningham) in which various murderers are selected for a ruthless manhunt , as each game is selected some extremely hired killers in the Mysterious event called "The tournament". . It is a game of world's best Assassins killing each other while featured live to its buyers as the world's best Show on earth. Here take part the following ones : Oshua Harlow (Ving Rhames) is a main champion , considered to be Number One , Lai Lai Zhen (Kelly Hu) a sexy high kicking, sharp shooting Chinese woman hoping to win enough money to quit 'the life' and disappear forever , Miles Slade (Ian Somerhalder) an crazy Texan who has entered purely as an excuse to create slaughter , chaos and massacre, a free running killer and Parkour expert , Anton Bogart (Sebastien Foucan) , the nasty villainous Steve Tomko (Craig Conway) who has entered as a test of his own hunter/killer skills , among others . Thousands of people watching the tournament , betting on which one of the 30 assassins will survive the next 24 hours "kill or die" and claim . The last man standing receiving the elevated cash prize and the title of Worlds No 1, which itself carries the legendary million dollar a bullet price tag . Every Seven Years The World's Greatest Assassins Gather ... Only One Will Survive . Death by elimination . Coming soon to a town near you!This nail-biting film contains action , thrills, suspense , blood , a little bit of black humor and is plenty of graphical violence . Special effects laden flick with ultra-violent events , but being really a loose rendition written by Gary Young & Jonathan Frank & Nick Rown freely based on the Stephen King novel that was adapted on cinema by Paul Michael Glaser as ¨Running Man¨ with Arnold Schwarzenegger , Jim Brown and Yaphet Kotto , the film is based very loosely on the novel of the same name . The story deals with a futuristic TV game show in which men hunt them down and kill them in gruesome manners . The movie displays strong and realistic fights and excellent action sequences with bloody attacks and violent , blistering struggles . The highlights of the film are the enjoyable relationship that's established between the peculiar characters of the priest/Robert Carlyle and the murderess/Kelli Hu, as well as the impressive and unstoppable pursuits-crashes between a double-decker bus and a giant truck. The picture belong to ¨dystopian world¨ genre in which tyrannical states are controlled by cruel death games , such as ¨Running Man¨ (Paul Michael Glaser) , ¨Battle Royale¨ (Kinji Fukasaku) and the recent ¨Hunger Games¨(Gary Ross) . The film is carried out by a varied cast , although it stands out Ving Rhames as a hunk and powerful warrior , he steals the spectacle as one army man , as enemies are dispatched in turn . Along with other important actors , such as : Robert Carlyle, Kelly Hu, Ian Somerhalder, Liam Cunningham, John Lynch , Andy Nyman , Iddo Goldberg , Nick Rowntree , Rachel Grant and special appearance by Scott Adkins proving his fighting skills . Being a United Kingdom/United States/Bahrain co-production here the British cast prevails.It contains a thrilling and appropriate musical score by Laura Karpman, mostly composed by means of synthesizer . Evocative and adequate , though dark at times, cinematography by Emil Topuzov . This lavishly produced motion picture was well directed by Scott Mann . He's an action expert directing some succesful films with plenty of spectacular set pieces , violence , thrills and twisted intrigues , such as : ¨Fall¨, ¨Heist¨, ¨Down Amongst the Dead¨ , ¨Final Score¨ and this ¨The Tournament¨ . Rating : 6/10.

The Tournament - a deadly game played out every 7 years, where the world's richest people put 30 of the world's deadliest assassins in an out of the way town, and bet on who will be the last man (or woman) standing. The surprise (aha( is that through a plot twist, a drunken priest played by Robert Carlyle becomes an unwilling participant. Ving Rhames, Kelly Hu and that dueshbag from LOST round out the character actors. A movie like this, for me, needs two things - badass characters - and I mean MAKE THEM BADASS! Have a guy who uses snakes as weapons, and has an eyepatch, and uses a boomerang! Have a girl who has poisons and throwing stars, and who killed her whole family when she was 3 years old - I want some bloody history goddammit. Have assassins who get their arms pulled off and still keep killing. What we get here is a stupid video game sequence for each of the top 5 assassins, THE TEXAN, THE FRENCHMAN, THE Asian CHICK, etc, kicking and punching a bit before freezing for the camera. This is not the way to go. Show them in their environment. SHOW us, don't just tell us how badass they are. The movie has a stupid subplot where Ving Rhames's wife has been killed, and hes there for revenge, blah blah blah, these movies tend to get all cocked up when they try to make an emotional plot work, and this one is no exception. I feel like having this tournament, plus a bystander who's a priest who then becomes one of the players is more than enough plot for an action movie, the rest can be just watching the carnage unfold, and if the characters are interesting, and the action scenes are creative, that's all it really needs. This movie tries to straddle both, and ends up having mediocre characters having mediocre fight scenes (the two fight scenes with the FRENCHMAN were the exceptions, mostly because I'm a sucker for that parkour jumping around stuff).One last thing - movies like this need to understand the idea of contrasting elements. Contrast these deadly killers against a very normal town! Show them getting coffee at starbucks, fighting in a wal-mart, contrast crazy with normal. Instead the towns people seem to barely exist, the cops are nowhere, you never get that moment where a kid looks at a bleeding murderer from behind a box of paper towels, and the killer goes "hey there buddy" before blowing away a crazy monkey fighter who leaps over the tootsie roll display. This place is the town equivalent of an empty warehouse.People are comparing it to death race, but I actually liked that better, because it embraced it's stupidity, and didn't try to have that emotional subplot. The Tournament is really a movie best enjoyed after at least four beers, and even then you might find yourself nodding off near the end.

This could have been a really great action/thriller. It has a very solid storyline and some decent action and fight scenes but the film's laughable, cheap special effects and gore are too great a flaws. Also, Ving Rhames is terribly miscasted here. He's a good enough actor and all, and has played some tough guy roles pretty well. (Think Melvin in Baby Boy 2001 or Diamond Dog in 1997's Con Air.) However, being the world's deadliest, kick-ass, assassin? I'm not buying it. And it shows too. While everyone else's fight sequences are fast and brutal, most of Rhames' scenes are staged so that he has to do very little fighting.The idea of a killing tournament where the filthy rich bet millions on contestants as if they were dogs on a racetrack, in itself, is anything but new. The films 13 (2010), The Condemned (2007), and even 2001's Rat Race and the Death Race franchise have already covered this plot. What makes The Tournament fresh is the subplot where a priest (Robert Carlyle) struggling with alcoholism accidentally gets tangled up in the tournament, and as a result, becomes a contestant against his will. But he's fortunate enough to win over the help of our co-star Kelly Hu as deadly female assassin Lai Lai Zhen. Seeing whether or not Lai Lai Zhen will make it to the end, with the priest as her extra baggage, is the highlight of the film.The two plot twists at the very end of the movie are pretty obvious early on. Otherwise, the story is quite entertaining. So I would say it's definitely worth a look. Just prepare yourself for needless gore galore.

Like many people I wondered why an action movie with Ving Rhames,Kelly Hu and Robert Carlyle didn't go to the cinema screen.The answer is...its not good enough.It is totally predictable from beginning to end, even if you haven't seen the many movies it rips off.If you can't see who'll win and what part the priest will play after 30 minutes I'd give up.Liam Cunningham and Robert Carlyle look embarrassed to be doing this. Kelly Hu is beautiful but can't act and other "stars" like Sebastian Foucan, Scott Adkins,Rachel Grant are blink and you'll miss them cameos.The opening scenes in Brazil show us what to expect as an idiot "top assassin" runs into a room firing wildly then runs out of ammo and is killed.These are the best killers in the world????even the guns sound like cap guns. Not worth your time

Ridiculous action is not necessarily taken to a new level but it is certainly taken to a rather fun level in this straight up action flick. It's been done before, see The Condemned, Death Race or Mean Guns. They all feature people killing other people for a large sum of money and or freedom and the protagonist, except in the case of Mean Guns, is an innocent man. Robert Carlyle is the innocent man caught up in a violent game where the best assassins in the world meet up and kill each other while rich folk watch safely from a massive room on computer monitors. Instead of having the killers in an isolated place like an island or a prison the action all takes place in an everyday ordinary town, and the explosions and gunshots are then covered up by the million dollar corporation that runs it to look like terrorist attacks. This makes it more interesting but at the same time a little more macabre which could be better or worst depending on the viewer because there are lots and lots of innocent victims being gunned down here. Carlyle is the star and he is a fine actor but he does not do action like Rhames and Hu do. Somerhalder also is crazy fun as an over the top killer who just loves to kill, he chews up the scenery as his ridiculous over the top assassin, representing America here along with Rhames. The other assassins get some screen time but only up until they are killed off. The action is constant and very fun, the drama is here but not too much to pull away from the action and the characters that have more than several minutes of screen time are all very fun to watch some have some cool skills but for the most part it's all gun play. This is recommended for anyone who likes to watch stuff blow up and Ving Rhames do his thing. Any fan of Somerhalder should see this too because it seems like he does something totally different here and it is very cool. Nothing perfect, but definitely worth seeing for entertainment purposes.

This is an all-out mindless action-fest full of bullet holes as well as plot holes, but it's really good entertainment if you don't think about it for longer than three seconds and can handle all the violence. "The Frenchman" steals the show in my opinion, with his acrobatic style, played by Parkour founder Foucan who you'll probably remember from the opening sequence of Casino Royale. I'm pretty impressed that they actually managed to flesh out the characters and have an actual story in this too. Not often one sees that in this type of film... Anyway, if you like your action in-your-face and ultra violent, this is the film for you. Check your brain at the door and enjoy.

The Tournament is a pretty disgusting, violent, gory movie that doesn't make any sense. Thirty assassins agree to to play a game in which 29 of them will die and only one will survive, for a prize of ten million dollars. If you are thinking Austin Powers you are right. Ten million dollars isn't that much money considering the stakes, so why would they agree to do it? Stereotypical rich evil people with a severe case of blood lust ala Hostel sit in a big room around a big table making cash bets for twenty four straight hours without dozing off as they watch the action on a big screen. Huh? It doesn't make much sense, does it? There are some pretty good low budget action scenes similar to but not as good as, say, Disrict 13 or Ong-Bak, that make this movie at least watchable, but overall it is just dumb and mean and it will probably give you a stomach ache, even if you are a seasoned horror movie fan. Mindless fun is one thing, but mindless hatred is another thing. If your fetish is watching human bodies exploding and splashing all over the place, this one is for you, otherwise, NOT.