You can just imagine the suits sitting around their big round table discussing how to churn out another financially beneficial Final Destination movie and get away with it. Big suit number one puts forward that they obviously need more inventive mouse trap like deaths. Big suit number two has the genius notion that 3D is again taking off so why not utilise that option too. And that's pretty much all that it took, with the end result being a movie that is very self aware of its roots, but still plays out as the runt of the Final Destination litter.Just as the director of the first one, James Wong, was brought back to direct part 3, the makers here bring back the director of part 2, David R. Ellis, to direct part 4! Which ultimately proves to be nothing more than some sort of nepotism like factor because The Final Destination is basically just over 82 minutes of poor acting, bad writing and a series of kills weaved together by the odd 5 minutes of barely relevant characterisations (the exposition as painful as the gory deaths!). The kills entertain as they pretty much always have throughout the franchise, with the opening disaster sequences (here set at a speedway stadium) continuing one of the series' great traditions. While the opening and closing X-Ray/Skeletal credit sequences are superb and a credit to those involved. Yet it all feels so tired, where in spite of the willingness to upgrade the technology, it's still lazy and has nothing to really justify its very being other than that to make easy money. The makers of part 5 would have to come up with something special to not turn this franchise from being one that was once bright and inventive, into that of a money train joke. 4/10

I just finished watching this (having seen the other 3 and never got a chance to see this one in theatres) so that I can see number 5 soon. I liked it, sort of... It being at a race track was pretty awesome (way cooler than a Plane, Car Pileup, and Roller-coaster in my opinion). The actors did a great job, the graphics were awesome. Overall this movie is awesome, EXCEPT 1 thing...The whole part of the Final Destination series, is the kids having visions and excaping death. In the first 3, the kids have 1 vision (at the beginning that gets them saved and starts the movie) that acts like they are going back in time... The start of the movie comes, all the deaths happen then you find out it's a vision. In THIS one, the kid has a total of 7 visions... 2 of them being like the ones in the first 3, the other 5 are visions that are used like clues. Having clues as to how they are going to die ruins the whole movie, it's taking the thrill right out of it.If I were you, I wouldn't waist your time with this one. It would have been the best one yet if it wasn't for the visions that are clues.

but i doubt this will be the final installment.these things are so cheap to make,what with their no name actors.maybe i'm just getting old,but i found myself bored out of my skull with this thing.i guess maybe i'm just not all that entertained by people dying in gross,disgusting ways anymore.that and i just found it all too absurd.not too mention the story is old hat.at slightly less than ninety minutes,this thing is slightly less than ninety minutes too long,in my opinion.for the fourteen to mid twenty crowd,i guess this might hold some value,and yes,it would have for me,at that age,and even beyond.until recently in fact.it's only been maybe two years since i realized i wanted more form my movie experience.one thing's for sure,when the next installment comes around,that's one destination i won't be going on.for me,The Final Destination is a 3/10

I never, ever expected to give this film 3 out of 10, i'm a fan of the series and thought FD3 was pretty damn awesome - by far the best of the trilogy. So when i saw this movie was "THE" final destination (a pretty cocky title, but hey it may have lived up to it) and it was gonna be in 3D i had pretty high expectations.My expectations were wrong. This movie SUCKED. If it wasn't part of the franchise it would have been a straight-to-DVD suckfest. Seriously i was WAITING for it to end. The accident at the car racing ring was just so - blah. I mean i know the whole series is far fetched and you have to have an imagination to believe it but this one was just so uninvolved. I mean getting on a plane, getting in a car and getting on a roller-coaster are things where you are putting your life at risk without thinking. Sitting in an audience? I mean come on, what's next "Final Destination 5 - i walked down a street and a building fell on me". By making the accident so un-scary what ensued just didn't really leave you involved. Nothing scared me here, i wasn't unnerved like i was with 1 through 3. Every time i get on a roller-coaster i get FD3 flashback, the only thing that will flashback to me from "THE" final destination will be the HORENDOUS performances.Ah the performances. FD1 had Seann William Scott & Kerr Smith, FD2 has Ali Later & FD3 had the immensely talented Mary Elizabeth Winstead. This film had 1 guy who could act trying to carry the whole sorry mess and a whole lot of bitches who need to be slapped for even thinking they should move to Hollywood. I know it's a lot to compete with but rather than just ignoring this you'd think the producers / casting directors would really try and pull something out of the bag here. Apparently not. To give him his due Bobby Campo was charismatic and tried his best with the shoddy dialogue he had. If the rest of the cast had been as good as him then we would have no problems. Nick Zano was OK as the cocky guy but there are people who could have done that way, way better. The real problem? The support actresses here were AWFUL. I just wanted to scream THIS IS NOT A COLD READING. I'm pretty sure that there were a friggin ton of young talents who auditioned for this piece and THIS is what they cast? Even the "MILF" (yes, she was actually credited as that) sucked. How hard is it to be a MILF?. Shantel Von-whatever her name is (AKA, A poor mans Ashlee Simpson) and Haley Webb (god i wanna slap her SO hard) apparently call themselves actresses. Before they continue to do this may i suggest something to them, ACTING LESSONS. GET THEM. YOU SUCK! For the love of god EMOTE. They sounded like they were reading straight from the script and looked blank in every scene. Awful.The deaths in FD4 were just too unrealistic. The special effects sucked - not even 3D could begin to save them. They looked like somebody got a little too excited with a computer and didn't really put any thought into making it look real. Making it look just a little bit real will scare people, making it look FUNNY is gonna annoy people.This film was just so, disappointing. Unrealistic, uninvolving, uninspired JUNK.The only thing i wanna say is, if there is gonna be an FD5, and i really hope there is considering 3/4 were awesome - then please, for the love of god bring back Glen Morgan & James Wong. Those guys know how to really scare people and the whole feel of the 1st & 3rd films is just so much better.Oh, and find people who have mastered the art of acting. Its pretty vital.

The Final Destination series is another guilty cinematic pleasure, similar to the Saw series, the Hostel films and before that, the Friday 13 and "Nightmare" movies. It has been two years since "The Final Destination" hit movie screens and it now plays fairly often on premium channels such as HBO or Encore. This movie and the series in general differs from other horror movies such as the Scream series in that the predator "Death" is unseen. All of the FD movies follow the same general premise: a group of teens escapes from death in a catastrophe only to have "death" follow them (you can't escape your destiny, right?).Each successive movie offers new and spectacular ways for good-looking young people to die. TFD starts out at a NASCAR type race, which is a social comment: the underlying reason many people go to such races is for the possibility of a violent and spectacular crash. Yet a soulful young man has a premonition that there will be mayhem and guides his three friends and a small pack of hangers-on to safety.The spectacular crash happens and "Death's" methodical predation of the survivors begins. To discuss the various ways people die would court spoilers but the writers of TFD put some wonderful humorous touches in what is a very taut and lean script (one of the complaints about the movie is that it is too short). A young mother has her two boys put tampons in their ears to protect their hearing from the loud stock car engines, for example. In another scene, a racist stalks the black security guard from the car race and during the mayhem that ensues, the War song "Why can't we be friends?" plays on the radio.Some reviewers lament the lack of character development in TFD, but they're missing the point. Most of the characters are either caricatures (the racist, the angry redneck, the cowboy) or eye candy (the four core teenagers who try to thwart death). The most interesting main character is Hunt, the roguish, sexy blond young alpha male. A sequence at a pool involving Hunt is one of the most clever and ironic in the entire movie. Without giving too much away, let's say that Hunt's problems start when he tries to retrieve a treasured "lucky" coin.TFD also contains a clever "movie within a movie" scene. The script also contains symbolism for coins, water, and America's love affair with the car. Admittedly these are nuances that the average moviegoer is likely to miss. At the same time, the movie has flaws, such as a contrived scene in a hospital and an annoying homeless character who pops up in a couple of scenes. Overall, the production team has succeeded in giving FD fans and new viewers a thrill ride of gory, guilty pleasure.

I went to this movie on the day it came out in London expecting to see something which was like the first 3, but maybe had a little change, maybe a twist from the original 3.. But i was left disappointed as it is the same as the previous 3 and is just obvious and you can just tell whats going to happen. When this situation develops, you are just going to the movie to see gruesome deaths which just send a tingle down your spine of utter disgust. This movie gets 4 stars because of the following 2 stars- 3D 2 stars- acting of Nick Zano (hunt) I don't recommend this film, but if you are a big fan of The Final Destination and are ready to see gruesome deaths based on the same concept in 3D then this movie is for you.4/10

While it was not a great or perfect film (particularly in the dialogue, ending and some of the acting), the first 'Final Destination' was entertaining and effective (especially with its terrific opening plane sequence and the creative deaths) with a fascinating idea done well.The bigger and bolder 'Final Destination 2' had its flaws but was just as good and perhaps the best of the four sequels. 'Final Destination 3' is just as big and bold, as well as gorier, and is also as good. The fourth instalment 'The Final Destination' is the worst of the series, and highly suggestive of the gimmick's novelty wearing off and running out of ideas. The second and third films were hardly original, but had scenes and deaths that were scary and fun and looked like they were made on a professional level.Neither can be said for 'The Final Destination'. Only the suspenseful car wash scene and the pretty ingenious opening credits work. All the other scary scenes/deaths are cheaply rendered, anaemic in atmosphere and bring more unintentional humour than tension or suspense. The gratuitously stomach-churning gore content cheapens them further. The film looks cheap too, especially in the special effects which are laughably amateurish and the less than slick editing. David R. Ellis returns from the second film and what made his direction work there doesn't come through here.It is hard to connect with the content when the characterisation, writing and acting are not up to par. With the sole exception of that for Mykelti Williamson, whose role is not big, none of the characters are developed well and are even more shallow, bland and annoying than in the previous three films. Apart from Williamson and Krista Allen, the acting is poor. Bobby Campo, lacking charisma, and Shantel VanSanten and Haley Webb forgetting to emote are the dishonourable mentions.The previous 'Final Destination' films had some black or ironic humour and some tension, 'The Final Destination' has neither, which makes the dull down-time between the deaths, silliness and contrivances far less forgivable, on top of the lack of character development and scares. The film is also too short and too rushed in places, the opening scene did nothing for me and the ending is the most illogical and stupidest of the series.Only saving graces are two decent performances (Williamson and Allen), two good scenes (the car wash and opening credits) and the eerie music score. The 3D is pretty good too if pointless.Everything else however contributes towards a disappointing mess of a film. 3/10 Bethany Cox.

First off 7.3? That has got to be a joke. This movie had nothing going for it besides the 3D effect, which was not used well in my opinion. The trailer for the scrooge movie used it better/more. Besides the fact the 3D was not used well, the acting was dreadful, even by horror movie standards(what happened to Bubba from Forrest Gump?) and the director did not take advantage of what he could have done with the 3D, it was like he read a book on directing and just did all the basic shots you are taught, when he could have got really creative with it. Sure if your 14 maybe its tolerable, but if you have any knowledge of how real movies should be made, save yourself.I wish the my final destination would have hit me before I watched this useless trash.

I went out with some friends tonight and everyone wanted to see this movie, and it had been a long time since I saw a horror movie, so I thought it might be fun.I saw the original "Final Destination" when I was younger and thought it was an interesting idea, and that movie was pretty well done. This movie, however, follows the EXACT same formula, in every way shape and form. No new plot devices are used, making this movie feel exhausted and uninteresting.All the characters are incredibly cliché for a teen horror flick. The nice, protagonist couple, the bitchy friend and her sex crazed boyfriend, etc. Not to mention the completely unnecessary sex scene in the middle of the movie, which only was shown to make sure male viewers remained moderately interested in this poor excuse for a movie, I imagine? The 'horror'. Ohhh, they loved gore, alright. Too bad that the gore came off as laughable instead of scary. I honestly can say that I was never once grossed out by the excessive amount of blood they showed, no matter how much they tried. Every 'death' that occurred in this movie was so incredibly far-fetched that it was extremely difficult to take seriously.In conclusion, I do not recommend this movie. If you look at this as a comedy instead of horror, you may enjoy it more. You also might enjoy it more if you get drunk first. However, seeing it sober as I did will be very painful, you have been warned.*****SPOILERS***** Also, while there are many goofs in this movie I'm sure, I would like to add that this film contains a HUGE plot hole towards the end that made me want to rip my hair out. Water would NOT extinguish a chemical fire, it would only make it worse. I believe that this was taught in... elementary school? wtf.

Film is very stressful, we must be careful of objects around us so as not to cause accidents.
I love this movie

This is the fourth in the franchise focusing on teenagers dodging death. A group of friends decide on going to the racetrack, of course wanting to see a horrific crash. Nick O'Bannon(Bobby Campo)foresees a devastating crash before it happens and does his best to warn his friends and those around him. After escaping the fiery crash and its consequences, the survivors feel fortunate to have cheated death; but have they. Nick keeps having premonitions of how the remaining unlucky ones will meet their deaths. Trying to change fate is not an easy task. Death is a sure thing.Special effects consist of the innovating sequences leading up to the character's demise. Gory enough for an R rating. Others in the cast: Shantel VanSanten, Haley Webb, Nick Zano, Justin Welborn and Cecile Monteyne.

The least of the better ones yet I sill really like The Final Destination for what it is. Some cheesy bits for sure but entertaining and stylish! Not much to say with this movie it's a bit disturbing not as much as the others plus the acting is sloppy. The best things is the 3D trickery effects, colors, and deaths.

I actually rather liked the third sequel, it was quite a bit of fun, this sequel is silly and has a lot of cheesy 3-D effects to try to revive the series so to speak. Yet again, the main lead has an epiphany about future events at a race track and we have a few survivors who are on death's list. Let's start off with the amateurish acting, and they obvious so little effort that was put forth here in this sequel. It has plenty of gore, plenty of creative sequences to set up the death sequences, but it's missing the most important element that this series has, characters that I give a damn about. I didn't care about any one of these people, and I had to go through 90 or so minutes of pure boredom when all was said and done. The most intriguing storyline for me was the security guard's character, but they didn't explore that enough for my liking, and instead focused on the two bland and wooden leads.Performances. Bobby Campo is a terrible lead and has no talent as far as I'm concerned. I didn't give a damn about what happened to him. Shantel VanSanten looks cute, but she's no heroine that's for sure and her chemistry with Campo didn't feel genuine too me. Mykelti Williamson was the most intriguing character for me, but they didn't focus on him enough for my liking.Bottom line. They said it was The FINAL Destination, but a 5th one is in production, how quickly things change?.3/10