"The Evil Dead" is not at all the sort of film I normally watch. However, it's a historically important one, as it gave director Sam Raimi and actor Bruce Campbell their big break...and is a great example of a super-cheap film that earned back a fortune for the filmmakers. In many ways, this early feature by Raimi reminds me of George Romero's "Night of the Living Dead" (the 1968 version) and Peter Jackson's "Bad Taste" as they, too, were early films of these directors and earned a fortune...catapulting these men to A-level films.The plot here isn't exactly deep. Five young people go off to a cabin in the woods. They find a tape recorder and play it...only to have a professor on the tape blurt out an incantation from a book he found...and the incantation brought out the evil dead who soon began invading the bodies of these folks. For some odd reason, Ash (Campbell) is spared and the final portion of the film is a total bloodbath as he is forced to violently dismember his friends in order to avoid being killed by these not demonic beings.While the gore level is off the charts in this film, it's so ridiculously over the top and fake looking that it is worth seeing. Had they had a better budget, no doubt the gore could have looked much more realistic...and the film would have turned me off completely! As it is, it's somewhat comical because it's so ridiculous. Not a great film but for its budget, an amazing picture...one all budding filmmakers should see.

Director Sam Raimi and good friend Bruce Campbell set out to make a real scary movie...although filmed on 16mm, THE EVIL DEAD is good enough to be your next nightmare and a hell of a lot better than your run of the mill slice and dice. Campbell plays Ash Williams, one of five college friends set out to have a wild weekend in the woods. Two guys...three girls journey to a remote cabin, of course in the middle of the woods. And the woods whisper "Join Us". The group stumbles upon a book and a tape recorder belonging to the previous inhabitants, warning of evil spirits lurking in the woods. When the dead come out to play, the newest victims turn into horrid ghouls. Ash, who at heart is a cowardly pansy, turns out to be the macho, macho man to the rescue. It takes courage, a shotgun and a chainsaw.When the flesh-eating demons start their attack, the blood doesn't just ooze; it splatters, gushes and flows by the bucketful. And there is the scene where one of the girls is beckoned into the woods only to be attacked and raped by a...tree?! Cheap special effects galore decorate this vacation to a little north of Hell. The comedy was unintentional. It is a product of bad acting by actors with little or no experience. But still, Raimi as writer and director has stumbled upon something here. THE EVIL DEAD more than deserves its youth restricted rating. As if it really matters, other cast members are: Betsy Baker, Hal Delrich, Ellen Sandweiss and Theresa Tilly.

A few nights ago, a couple of friends and myself watched The Evil Dead again. It was like the 68th viewing for me ( I think...lost count somewhere around 50) but it still only means one thing to me: PARTY !! Many feeling can occur when watching this delicious masterpiece by Sam Raimi. You can either adore it, be frightened by it or be disgusted by it. But it always leaves a big impression on you and I can't imagine anyone would hate it. And there is ONE feeling that everyone should have towards this movie...RESPECT ! Mostly respect regarding the achievement of Sam Raimi. This guy was 21 years old when he made this film and that's impressive to say the least. I'm around that age at the moment and I sure as hell haven't pulled it off yet...I strongly doubt I ever will, actually. No, when you're able to come up with such an original and dared idea for a horror film, you belong to the greatest minds in the film industry. Sam Raimi did it and his further career only confirmed his status of being a genius with every single movie he directed afterwards. Tons of respect towards Bruce Campbell as well. Sure his performance in this movie is far from great, but at the time, he did it because of his friendship with Sam Raimi. And because The Evil Dead became a big hit, his career was launched too and he certainly grew as an actor. Bruce Campbell is now in the favorite actor-list of many B-movie fans...And I'm one of them.Then there's Tom Sullivan...responsible for the make-up. What a fine job he did. The Evil Dead gave a whole new meaning to the word "gore" and we have this man to thank for that. Most nowadays horror films still can't live up to the standard of Evil Dead...not even close. The plot of this film is as simple as can be...but it works. Five friends drive to a small cabin in the woods to spend a small vacation. They find a tape recorder with a message...Out of curiosity, they play it and pure evil is rised in the woods. One by one, they become possessed and turn into horrible demons who try to kill those who're still alive...That's it !!! And that's all there is needed to create a fun and very original horror movie. The same story already came out in 1978 as a short film called "Within the Woods". It was meant to fund money for this film and it's great B-movie fun as well. If you're a big fan of The Evil Dead trilogy, it's certainly worth searching for.Anno 2003, Sam Raimi has grown out to one of Hollywood's favorite directors. He became immortal in the eyes of the big budget audience with his movie Spiderman. The sequel of that one is in production while I write this. I'm sure it will be as decent as the first Spiderman was, but I'd still prefer to see Evil Dead 4 coming from the brain of Sam Raimi.A fun trivia element to finish this review with : If you're watching the end credits of the Evil Dead, you'll see Joel Coen is credited as Assistent Editor. Coen now is a famous director as well and may be considered as the best director alive. Back in 1981, he and Sam Raimi were close friends and even shared a studio when they were in collage. Joel Coen made his debut in 1984 with Blood Simple. One of the best cult movies ever made...Join us....

With 365 other reviews at the time of this writing I find it hard to believe that I have anything new to add but here goes.No movie is ever going to be liked by everybody but I think the fact that The Evil Dead gets so much positive hype from its fans that fewer people in the future will enjoy it.  Hype brings with it a twisted like/hate ratio.  A movie with lots of positive hype will receive fewer positive critiques from future viewers and vice versa, negative will bring more positive critiques.With that said I admire what The Evil Dead brings to horror.  When I first watched this movie as a teen it and it's sequel scared the hell out of me. It didn't help that I watched it in my basement alone but that's part of the fun of horror movies.  I watched The Evil Dead again last night and it still packed a punch for me.  Of course not nearly as much as it did 15 years ago but I still found it enjoyable.The Evil Dead is an uneven movie but that is to be expected being made on such a meager budget.  But it does have enough suspense, shocks and creepiness to it that The Evil Dead can actually claim to be a horror movie. A lot of nay-sayers of The Evil Dead say it's a "stupid" movie, which in and of itself is a brilliant critique don't you think?  I for one think it's anything but.  Unlike many horror films it has a story which is easy to follow and for the most part fair to the viewer.  Given that The Evil Dead was made for somewhere around $350,000 many of the aspects of the movie are remarkable.  The special effects are nicely done even if at times obvious.  Sam Raimi's camera work makes otherwise dull moments interesting to watch for the viewer.  Raimi knows his way around a dollar and in The Evil Dead he gets everything he can out of every cent he spends.So if you are looking for a good horror film, The Evil Dead is a perfect choice, if viewed in the right frame of mind.  Just remember, it was made on a very small budget, it was made by a first time writer/director and amateur actors.  With this in mind you should have yourself a good time watching The Evil Dead.  The Evil Dead rates a 7 out of 10.

Before "Spider-Man," Sam Raimi started off as the director of the classic fright film "The Evil Dead," which, to this day, is one of the hippest horror films ever.Ash, his girlfriend Linda, his sister Cheryl, and his friends Scott and Shelly head out to an isolated cabin in the woods for some fun. But right from the beginning, strange things happen. Cheryl hears voices howling "Join us!" And then, Ash and Scott find a recording of a ritual from a book called The Book of the Dead. Too bad for them, because that ritual releases soul-hungry demons who possess everybody in the cabin. The only way to stop the demons is through the act of bodily dismemberment, and it's up to Ash to return the demons to their resting place. However, it's not gonna be easy."The Evil Dead" can be very scary, but it's mostly great fun to watch due to its shameless amount of gore. This movie goes so over the top, it sort of becomes comic, and I dig that.Bruce Campbell has created such an icon out of Ash, a character who has lasted through 3 films. Campbell is a master. The other cast is very good with Ellen Sandweiss as Cheryl, Hal Delrich as Scott, Betsy Baker as Linda and Sarah York as Shelly."The Evil Dead" is a movie done with so much love for the genre, and a movie like that only comes once in a while. Hilariously gory, well-acted, and great fun to watch on a nice Halloween night, a horror movie like this doesn't get any better. A classic!****

This frightening,strikingly designed horror movie that has became a cult favorite thanks to its unstopped terror deals about a group of five friends go into at mountain cabin and they find the book of the dead,the¨ Necronomicon¨, then begin a possession demoniac and they undergo an eerie transformation at night and going on a murderous rampage.The main starring(Bruce Campbell)who get drawn into a web of evil and is beset by horrible demons.This lack budget film contains tension,terror,shocks and lots of blood,slime and guts.The movie is blending from ¨Night of the living dead¨with a creepy creatures submitted a fantastic possession has transformed into flesh eating,from Dario Argento's ¨Suspiria¨ spectres, and of course the ¨Exorcist¨ ,besides the death of possessed bears absolutely resemblance to Terence Fisher's ¨Dracula¨.Highly adequate make up and special with effective monsters.It must be stated that this is one of the grossest,disgusting and most brutally unnerving movies in the story.This independently produced gem features sets and production standards usually found in Z grade movies but is skillfully narrated and results to be an exciting horror film.Followed by two inferior sequels: ¨¨Evil dead ¨2 ,¨Army of darkness ¨ with similar actor(Bruce Campbell),producer(Robert Tapert by Renaissance pictures),musician(Joseph LoDuca) and well directed by Sam Raimi.A minor classic providing chills and grisly horror and isn't apt for squeamish neither feeble stomachs.Well worth watching for terror and gore lovers.

We've all taken a few days off with friends to go and explore, have a little bit of an adventure in the wild, be enthralled by natures brilliance and all that it brings, to take in its beauty, relax under the stars, good food and drink and company, a wonderful world all round: but it seems there is a darker side that we could never have imagined, that would make most of us scream and shout, where demonic beasts feast upon us, Hades fiends scrape pus from and into us, where the jaws of hell gape wide and open, where the terrors of the night become quite unspoken, taking your innocence and soul, dragging it down a deep black hole, a cadavers world that comes to life, to cause you unremitting strife, where blood and guts come to the fore, as they spill onto the crimson floor, parts are cut and sheared and shorn, you'll probably wish you'd never have been born - a world before Wi-Fi and CGI!

The Evil Dead is a low-budget horror classic packed with ridiculous-looking demons, extreme blood and gore, some decent scariness and just some other terrible elements that result in it gaining respect. This movie is old, violent and ridiculous fun for older teenagers craving for those exact three words. It's definitely not perfect for today's expectations and there's big flaws, but they're all overlooked and this movie is just for entertainment.To put it clearly, The Evil Dead is completely stupid and purely dumb... but wait, that's not at all a bad thing. The reason this film is a lot of fun to watch is specifically because it seems a bit mindless, which is a result of inferior acting, crazy-laughable demonic possessions and an overall lack of sympathy for the story and characters. The possessed characters look very much like ghouls or zombies, and living up to the stereotypes, the characters make extremely poor decisions.But for an early 80s movie, Sam Raimi has also achieved receiving one of the highest MPAA adult ratings due to how bloody, gory and violent it is. This film sprays blood and flesh all over the place, making a big mess and wild fun. The Evil Dead kind of feels related to other horror classics involving Leatherface and Jason Voorhees in certain directions, but it's more fun, more violent and better!If you liked this review, check out the full review and other reviews at aussieboyreviews.

I'd love to know why everyone posting on this site thinks this movie is so priceless. C'mon, people! It's stereotypically set in the dark in the middle of the woods, and anybody knows what happens in the dark in the middle of the woods, if you ever set around the fire at scout camp. Weird tapes wake up demons in the woods. Some idiot girl decides to go out into the woods to confront the demons and gets raped by a tree (yes, you read that right...there is no particular reason for this scene, by the way, except to give the obligatory T&A shot these movies are notorious for). The demons are not only out to rip out your innards, they are also determined to annoy the sh*t out of you before doing so. Otherwise, it's basically a whole lot of fake blood and strewn about body parts-not a bad thing in and of itself, but certainly does not elevate this to "good movie" status. Don't bother, unless you have some kind of weird branch fetish.