Unmissable for Meryl Streep fans. She plays second fiddle to Anne Hathaway here - screen time wise, otherwise she's the whole bloody orchestra. She's the one reason to see the film and that in itself is one hell of a reason. Meryl Streep is fearless and part of the joy of going to see her films is that we know for a fact that she's going to dare and dare and dare. From Sophie's Choice and A Cry in The Dark to Death Becomes Her and Plenty. Here the story is as unbearable as most TV commercials but she, Meryl/Miranda transforms it into something else. We connect with her evil queen because her evil queen is much more real, much more human than anybody else on the screen. Emily Blunt and Stanley Tucci are fun but they're in the periphery of a story that's so wafer thing they can't really move to the center. Anne Hathaway is kind of invisible and her character only changes costumes and make up. There is no real tangible growth. Now that I got that out of my system. Go see Meryl be Miranda. You'll have a lot of fun.

Really good but when re-watching again here in 2021 the boyfriend who won't even allow his girlfriend 9 months of career advancing super hard work without bashing her down so much by saying she has no integrity anymore - which she totally does - is just hard to watch.
Less mean boyfriend wrapped up in a non threatening "cutie" next time please. He is a total a**hole and is using psychological manupulation to get her to drop the job. He is in reality really mean to her. If she does not do what he wants there will be hell to pay. Andy is just to nice and underdog'y.

Her boyfriend is so sexist, boring and a wet blanket

The Devil Wears Prada (2006)There are four and a half major stars here, and any part of this movie with any of them is really fabulous. I'm talking Streep of course, and Hathaway who has the main role. Add Tucci who is terrific (as always) and Blunt who is also terrific (as always) and you have he makings of a terrific movie.So why the downer reviews and semi-dud status? I don't know, except the other parts without any of these, or with just Hathaway and her friends (her peers including her cute but dull boyfriend) are really dull stuff. This is partly the actors and partly the writing, which is truly filler. I can see some people grabbing their remotes at these points. But let's get to the crux of the movie, which is actually pretty great fun. The parade of great fashion that whizzes by, the haughty power queen that Streep pulls off with such panache, the steady dribble of insults coming from Blunt's mouth, and the transformation of Hathaway, over and over, as she moves her way into this world are all really dazzling. It's a fairy tale with its feet firmly on the ground--but what odd, worldly, glitzed up ground to be standing on. There are no depths here, just light romantic comedy. It's a situation many of us know--either by having to look good, or by having an impossible boss, or just seeing a relationship dissolve as you move on in your goals and maturity. Between the dreck there is a mostly wonderful idea made into an intermittently wonderful film.

There's absolutely no chemistry between Anne and Adrian. How the hell did they cast him for this role?! Everyone else is brilliant. Classic fun, love this movie.

Andy Sachs (Anne Hathaway) is a recent journalism graduate hoping for a job at an important news outlet. She gets hired by the ruthless Miranda Priestly (Meryl Streep) editor of Runway fashion magazine. Only she feels the magazine is beneath her high minded journalism. Emily Blunt plays Miranda's long suffering assistant, and Stanley Tucci plays her longtime second in command.Of course Andy learns some lessons, grows in character, and faces a choice. The story is pretty standard loosely based on Anna Wintour editor of Vogue. The big plus is the great performances from all three ladies. Emily Blunt is funny. Meryl Streep nails her performance. And Anne Hathaway is great at holding the screen with these powerful performances.

Having read Lauren Weisberger's novel when it first came out, didn't leave this viewer with a desire for watching the movie version of this tale of the people in the trendy media business that creates such a need for certain section of the population to run and buy all the latest designers' creations. One must say, that when the offer to borrow the DVD, presented an opportunity to compare the book with what comes out in the film.David Frankel follows the screen play that was put together by Ms. Weisberger and Aline Brosh McKenna, and keeps the essence of the book much intact. The finished product will baffle people outside the realm of fashion since it capitalizes on name dropping and inside jokes. The idea of a powerful woman, who is so self centered, she forgets what reality is like, shows us a world in which the idea of having the latest gives a person some value in life just by wearing what's in vogue at the moment.Meryl Streep is basically the whole reason for watching the film. As the tyrannical Miranda Priestly, she is worth the price of admission, or rental. Ms. Streep never raises her voice in order to get her point across. Her Miranda shows a cruelty beyond belief, yet, her own life is a mess. Miranda would be the last person to be a role model to imitate. Miranda is basically a self-made woman who probably came out of the same background of the young assistants she loves to terrorize, belittle and make them feel inadequate. Miranda can dictate to others, but she can't do anything to save her own marriage.Anne Hathaway surprises in her role of Andy Sachs. Never has she been so beautifully presented in any film she has appeared. She seems to be a natural who carries herself well against the rest of the people in the magazine. Emily Blunt is another asset. Stanley Tucci, Simon Baker, and the rest of the cast do a good job for the director.

I got a chance to see a sneak preview, and it was better than expected. First, I have to say that I've never read the book. My friend who saw it with me read it, and she said that the movie was pretty faithful to the book. The movie stars Anne Hathaway, a writer who winds up applying for, and getting the second assistant position to the Editor-in-Chief of THE fashion magazine called "Runway." Her boss is played by the always fantastic Meryl Streep. While she gets less screen time in the movie, her mean looks and bitchy attitude makes her character stick with you. Also, the movie does give you some soft moments to make her a little more sympathetic than she was portrayed in the novel (or so my friend told me). I do wonder whether or not this movie would've worked if Meryl's character was male instead of female. I won't bore you with the other plot details because it was actually fun to not know how it unravels. Without the novel to go by, it was fun to figure out what bad thing was going to happen to her next. I do have to say that the movie has achieved the balance of being cute but not corny. You also get to understand why she just takes it all instead of just quitting to begin with. It's funny enough to make you laugh out loud, but more importantly, it's a great film to escape to. Hey, at least for the majority of us, we can come out of the theater and say, "At least my boss isn't like that."

The Devil Wears Prada finds an eager young journalism major Anne Hathaway
starting a new job at the fashion industry magazine Runway. She's got the
writing credentials, but experience in the industry not a bit. Which is going
to be tough because she will be working for Meryl Streep a queenpin of the
fashion industry. She's a tough and exacting and demanding supervisor and
can't seem to keep good help.Watching Streep as Miranda Priestley I was reminded about how law clerks
worked that way for William O. Douglas on the Supreme Court. He went through them like tissue paper he was that demanding. A brilliant jurist not a
very nice man.Anne Hathaway ever since she was a Disney princess seems always to be cast
as sunny, upbeat characters and the casting suits her well. Streep really puts
her through the ringer. But the girl had grit.Streep's a survivor, she's tough in a tough business. One wonders when she was up and coming herself what she might have gone through that make her
the way she is.Hathaway's also got relationship problems with her boyfriend Adrian Greiner who is trying to make it in another tough business, cooking. Hathaway temporarily falls for the charming fashion designer Simon Baker on a quick
trip to Paris with Streep.The Devil Wears Prada got two Oscar nominations, one of the many for Meryl
Streep as Best Actress and one for costume design. As this is a film about the
fashion industry that would almost seem a requirement. Fans of Meryl Streep will enjoy this one. You might try viewing this back to
back with the Susan Hayward classic I Can Get It For You Wholesale. That
film will give you an idea where Streep might have originated from.

Even though she portrayed variations of the same demonic character in 1989's "She-Devil" and 1992's "Death Becomes Her", Meryl Streep truly nails it in this smart, creative 2006 comedy by underplaying the role and saving her verbal talons for pivotal moments. As Miranda Priestly, the despotic editor-in-chief of Runway magazine, Streep simply singes the screen every time she appears with her perfectly upswept hair; arrogant couture opinions and frequently unreasonable demands on her staff.Fortunately, director David Frankel has come along well since his 1995 Woody Allen knockoff, the irritatingly unctuous "Miami Rhapsody", and one can see his progression in his smart work on episodes of "Sex in the City" and "Entourage". He moves the film at such a sharp, fast clip that it feels like an accurately frenzied portrayal of the inner workings of the world of haute couture. The one-line zingers also come fast and furious thanks to Aline Brosh McKenna's deep-dish script based on Lauren Weisberger's best-selling novel, but the vitriol does not come at the expense of character development and a shrewdly observed storyline about all-or-nothing careers when working for media royals and courtiers.The plot's protagonist is not Priestly but Andy Sachs, a young idealist and aspiring journalist who just graduated from Northwestern. Even though she has no interest in fashion, she lands an interview at Runway. Because she is not a typically bootlicking, anorexic fashionista toady, Priestly hires her as her second assistant. It becomes a nightmarish trial by fire, as Andy slowly earns the trust of Priestly much to the chagrin of the haughty first assistant Emily. And despite the derision of her circle of friends, including her live-in boyfriend, Sachs starts to respect Priestly's style and power, which leads to the decision to have Andy go to Paris for Fashion Week. Further complications ensue when a hotshot writer takes an interest in her and a power struggle erupts at Runway.It really takes someone of Streep's caliber to pull off the impossible character of Priestly because when she does have a moment of vulnerability, it resonates so much more than it should. Although she is far too pretty to be considered frumpy by anyone's standards, the naturally likable Anne Hathaway plays Sachs serviceably and looks sensational in a series of Chanel outfits. She brings the necessary heart to the story, even though the character arc is rather predictable. It does seem a shame that we are supposed to cheer the character's reduction from size 6 to 4, but that is probably as accurate as anything else in the film.There is terrific work from the reliable Stanley Tucci as Nigel, Runway's no-nonsense fashion director, especially as he patiently works under Priestly's shadow and gives Sachs hard-to-take survival advice, and from Emily Blunt, who plays first assistant Emily with the ideal combination of vitriol and desperation. Overly metrosexualized with the strangest blond eyebrows I have ever seen, Simon Baker lends an appropriately smarmy edge to his writer Christian Thompson. Far less interesting are Sachs' judgmental friends, in particular Adrian Granier as Sachs' sous-chef boyfriend and Tracie Thoms as art gallery owner Lilly. The ending is inevitable, but it moves in a creative way that makes neither Sachs overly heroic nor Priestly absolutely villainous. This is solid entertainment elevated by the artistry of Streep.

My daughter read the book and wanted me to go see the movie with her. I was truly entertained by all of the back-biting and bitching that went on at "Runway" magazine, which is helmed by the inimitable Meryl Streep. She puts the 'itch' in bitch. You wait on tenterhooks for her to devour demure, clueless little Anne Hathaway. Keep waiting. All the while their little dance of death is going on, there is Stanley Tucci in the background, chewing up the scenery. He plays Fairy Godmother to Anne's Cinderella and it is a scene that would make any girl's heart go pitter-pat. All those designer close being thrown about, and the JIMMY CHOOS!!!! If you're going to see the clothes, you will be happy. If you are going to see Meryl act like a bitch, you will be happy. But go to see Stanley Tucci; he is poetry in motion, dressed to the nines (especially in his plaid suit), and as bitchy and gossipy as any old queen!! Plus seeing New York in all of its glory is always a treat. This was a great movie. I highly recommend it to: 20-30something women, gay men, anyone who loves anything Meryl Streep does, and those Stanley Tucci fans out there (and you know who you are!!).Enjoy!!

I'm not a girl, so I knew next to nothing about Anne Hathaway, I went to see Meryl Streep and oh boy, did I see her. An inedited Meryl Streep, far, far away from anything she has ever done and that is saying something, isn't it? Blazing with self confidence, Miranda Pristley is a monumental modern queen. Hints of human trouble at her own personal castle doesn't disturb that imperious facade and her extraordinary talent to say "No" I may be totally out of touch but I just wanted Anne Hathaway out of the way. It bother me so much. I longed for the young Julie Christie in that role. The Christie of "Darling" can you imagine? Then yes you have a battle of the titans not a predictable, tired, phony fairy tale. When Hathaway's boyfriend tells her "You have become one of them" I wanted to shoot myself because that's obviously what was suppose to happen but other than different outfits and make up I saw no difference in the girl. I enjoyed very much Stanley Tucci and Emily Blunt's performance and I'm recommending the film just to witness Meryl Streep, the greatest actress of our or any generation, dazzles us with an extraordinary new face.

I was horribly offended by this film. Andy's friends act like she's selling her soul to work at Runway, as if it's not just an occupational hazard to submit to cruel bosses here and there. The whole premise of her accepting the job in the first place is that she can then move on to enviable roles in other magazines. What the hell is wrong with that?!!! How is spending a year working your ass off some kind of spiritual sin? It doesn't make any sense.And she gets accused of doing to Emily what Priestly does to Tucci's character, but that's so clearly not the case. Why should Andy or anyone else sacrifice their promotion for co-workers that never made any effort to be nice to them in the first place? Ideally promotions are awarded meritocratically and why shouldn't we believe that Andy is just as qualified and deserving of her new responsibilities as Emily? Because she wasn't there as long? That's retarded people! The real world doesn't operate this way. When was the last time you gave up a promotion for some co-worker who was an asshole to you and didn't necessarily do her job as well? The basic message of this movie is that you shouldn't be ambitious, because if you are you will be punished by your friends and family--is this women really need to hear more of this bullshit? You're suppose to presume that had Andy completed her year there she would have set herself permanently on the path to crazed careerism which led to Miranda's second divorce. Oh, everyone at Runway is so unhappy. It's not worth it to be at the top of your field in fashion. I mean, it's absurd.Oh, and sous chef boyfriend at one point declares how they should stop pretending that he and Andy have anything in common anymore. Oh my God. You obviously had precious little in common in the first place if girlfriend + an unusually stressful year of work is enough to eviscerate all that you used to have in common. In the real world, partners go through periods when they become absorbed by intense spells and relationships survive, because in good relationships partners support the long-term goals of their sig others. How do you think doctors complete their residencies with their relationships in tact? The gratuitous fashion montages were fantastic, but Anne Hathaway is a less than formidable talent that works best when she's posing all Brunette Barbie style. I actually walked out after Andy threw her cell phone in the fountain. I figured there wouldn't be anymore eye candy post-Runway and I'd have to sit through some predictable reconciliation scene where she's apologizing to her boyfriend for having had the misguided notion that the people who loved her might enjoy watching her succeed. And it's just a stale, middle-of-the-road mainstream feature in a multitude of other dimensions. Save for Meryl Streep's white hot performance this movie sucks. View this movie only to witness a blatant example of how society wants to sabotage women's economic success.