When this came out, I was living with a roommate. He went out and saw it, came home and said, "Dude, you have to go see The Matrix." So we left and he sat through it a second time. This movie is splendidly done. The mystery about what the Matrix is, unravels and you see a dystopian future unlike any we as a race would want. I have watched this over and over and never tire of it. Everyone does a great job acting in this, the special effects are above par and the story is engaging.

The Matrix - 1999This was a real change in filmmaking. Like watching it again in 2020, i.e. after 21 years and it still feels fresh. Iconic scenes are still having benchmarks setting up.If we say it sci-fi at its best, it won't be wrong. The hype was real, it is still not easy to match the level of Matrix where we experience the connection of humans and science, that too with amazing action fight and chase scenes, not just normal scenes they were, multiple exposures, slow motion 3D moves, Oh My God, and it's understandable as well like what are the characters up to and what storyline they are entering into. The script was very well written and executed otherwise it could have been a mess. A special appreciation in managing the theme with those black color costumes and a scientific zone with unimaginable equipment and props doing unbelievable things in the two worlds created. No spoilers, but the action scenes in the climax where the protagonist goes to save someone from agents are really breathtaking. The technology used at its best.A salute to Wachowski Brothers and the team for creating this masterpiece. It will be a great competition and motivation as well for many films coming in the future.

The film is as well crafted as the matrix itself! On another level entirely to any other science fiction film from the last 20 years . Getting lost in another world, is interly what Cinema is made for. This one takes you into a whole new universe interly .

Writing a review of The Matrix is a very hard thing for me to do because this film means a lot to me and therefore I want to do the film justice by writing a good review. To tell the truth the first time I saw the film I was enamored by the effects. I remember thinking to myself that this was one of the most visually stunning films I had ever seen in my life. Also having always been a comic book fan and a fan of films that were larger than life, the transitional element of the story was very appealing to me and this probably heightened my enjoyment of the film very much. It wasn't until some time later (and after having seen the film a few times more) that I started to think about the film. I recognized the Christian elements quite quickly but it wasn't until I wrote an actual 15-page essay on the film that I tapped into some of the philosophical and religious elements and that made me appreciate the film even more. I won't say that I have recognized all elements because the film is quite literally packed with them.Acting wise the film works excellently. I won't say that there aren't any issues because there are but overall the acting is pretty flawless. Keanu Reeves plays the main character, Neo, or Thomas A. Anderson and while he is not the perfect actor I think he does a pretty good job in The Matrix (and the sequels). He doesn't have the longest of lines which was probably a deliberate choice from the directors and it works because this gives him a better opportunity to work on posture and facial expressions and I must say that overall his body language is very good. Very clear and well defined. Laurence Fishbourne plays Neo's mentor Morpheus and he does an excellent job of it. His lines flow with a certain confidence and style that makes his character somewhat unique and interesting. Carrie-Anne Moss does a good job as well and succeeds in looking both cool and sexy in her leather outfit. Joe Pantoliano, a critically underrated actor does a brilliant job of bringing his character, Cypher, to life. I can't say much about him because his character is pretty essential to the plot and I certainly don't wan't to spoil it for anyone. Gloria Foster appears in a relatively small role that will have greater significance in the following films and she does a very good job. The best acting is provided by Hugo Weaving, however, in his portrayal of Agent Smith. It is really something to watch him act out the changes in his character. Agent Smith gains some human traits like anger, sense of dread, hate and eventually even a sly sense of humor (mostly in the sequels). Two thumbs way up to Weaving who has created one of the finest screen villains of all time.Effects wise the film is simply stunning and it deservedly was awarded the Oscar for best effects (and was regrettably cheated out of a nomination in the Best Film category) ahead of even Star Wars. The reason that I think The Matrix deserves the Oscar for best effects is simply that the effects in The Matrix are more innovative than the ones in Star Wars. Just take a look at how many times the effects have been spoofed and you'll probably agree. The effects also help in the symbolism of the film and in creating a very dystopian atmosphere not unlike the one seen in Blade Runner and this works brilliantly. The film looks beautiful at all times and today 6 years later (my God has it already been 6 years?) the effects still hold their ground against new science fiction films. Add the effects to the brilliant editing and you have a visual masterpiece on your hands. Very well done.The reason that I think The Matrix is more reviewable than pretty much any other film is the story and the philosophical and religious elements of the story because with every viewing I catch something I didn't see the previous time I watched it. Without spoiling the film I think I can mention a few of the more obvious elements. Obviously the film draws on the Messiah myth as Neo is a clear reference to Jesus with the analogy of his name (Neo = one, as in The One) but also hidden in his other name, Thomas A. Anderson. The first part of his last name, Anderson comes from the Greek Andros meaning "man" and combine this with the second part of his last name "son" and add a little creativity you will come up with the combination "son of man" which was a title Jesus came up with about himself. Also the first time we meet Neo a man calls him (and I quote): "You're my Saviour man. My own personal Jesus Christ." It doesn't get any more obvious than that. Aside from the Christianic elements the film also gets its inspiration from Budhism, Gnosticism (Gnosis = knowledge) but is also inspired by Plato and his analogy of the Cave and Jean Baudrillard's essay, Simulacra and Simulations. Explaining these elements would make this review go on forever so aside from mentioning them I will not comment on them further.To all the people who doubt the profound nature of The Matrix I can only give one advice: Free your mind and watch the film again. You won't regret it. If I had to choose a favorite all time film my choice would probably fall on either The Matrix (obviously I don't expect people to agree but if they do thats great) or The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King and I recommend it to all fans of sci-fi and people who like philosophy.10/10 - on my top 3 of best films.

This movie is so well written that you can't even prove this movie is wrong about our world. This movie mades you think that our world can be just a reflection, a fake world. It's not just about the war between AI and humanity. It's more about questioning the reality.And years later the idea is never gets old. This is the movie that you should respect if someone says "I think this is the greatest movie of all time." because it has somethings unique, not special it's just unique.It's beyond all the Science-Fiction movies. Normally Sci-Fi movies mades you think "Can this subject of the movie be real someday?" and actually only some of them made you think that way. This one mades you think "I can't deny, this could be our reality. We can never be sure."Besides making one of the greatest Fictional Universes, this movie also achieves so much more.And not only that, this movie is also achieves something great in Action. It has the most iconic action scenes. Action director is so great. Revolutionary VFX and SFX, amazing Set Decoration and more.

Ok, I'm getting sick of comments saying stuff like "The Matrix is the greatest film EVER MADE!"That's complete and utter bullturd. Yes, it had great cinematography and effects, yes it had a great soundtrack but NO WAY was the acting superb and NO WAY was the storyline great.Take that storyline and stick it in any other action movie and you would leave feeling disappointed at the end. It's major selling point was "What is the Matrix? You have to see it for yourself." Come on, the only plot twist was that thing to do with Cypher, and that wasn't greatly unforeseeable, there's things like that in every frigging action movie.The thing that set it apart was the ground-breaking camera effects, gnarly special effects and a funky soundtrack, as well as the costume design bit, with all that leather and expensive sunglasses. Without this stuff, all you would be left with is your average action movie.I'm not saying it was a bad film at all, just not one of the greatest. Highly entertaining, great to watch with your mates, definitely one of the most interesting films in recent years. But give me The Third Man, Memento or the Usual Suspects any day.7/10

So much greatness about this well done crafty philosophical masterpiece! One of the greatest films ever made; a true benchmark in cinema and huge meticulously brilliant cabinet file of important metaphors. I smile so much while watching The Matrix, I'm so happy it had a 20th anniversary. I'm beyond intrigued by these types of society thought-provoking gems; there aren't enough of them!!

You name it. Technology, CGI, flow of the story, the concept, action, romance, style, music,... everything you want is realized in this movie to the level of perfection. The scene where Neo and Trinity go to the virtual reality to save Morpheus is so fashionable that I screamed. The camera angle, costume, music, and the gunfights.. all these qualities shine the heroes. The entertainment value of this movie should not be overlooked because of its high quality and philosophy.I can see how much research Wachowski sisters put in to make their imaginations and concepts realized in the two-hour movie in plausible ways. How is dystopian future and present is connected? How does dream within a dream work? All the questions about their imaginary world is answered because they pay attention to details and they explain every existence and terms with logic one step at a time. There is no leap of logic, very tightly well-woven script.Their concept is not just future or imaginary anymore. In 2020, we see AI taking over many of works and jobs that humans used to do and invading privacy. Virtual reality games gain popularity over time, and you see Neo everywhere who adapts quickly in the Internet world and learn the combat game so fast and naturally.The impact of 'The Matrix' in the movie industry is more than imaginable. Of course, revolutionary visual effects with elaborated CGI techniques created iconic bullet-dodging scene of Neo. Because the Matrix system in the movie is kindly well-explained, it widens a scale of sci-fi genre. Hunger Games, Inception, Eagle Eye, Wall-E, and so many other movies that followed benefited from this epic work.

My review of the best epic Science Fiction Action film, The Matrix (1999) starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, Joe Pantoliano, Marcus Chong and Gloria Foster.This was be the first movie I went to see in the movie theater with my mom when I was 15.years old, when I read in the magazines about The Matrix I was blown away and I wanted to see it right away. The Matrix is the best action sci-fi films that Keanu Reeves made in the 90's. It is one of my personal favorite movies. The Matrix is a (1999) American science fiction action film written and directed by The Wachowskis, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. It depicts a dystopia future in which reality as perceived by most humans is actually a simulated reality called "the Matrix", created by sentient machines to subdue the human population, while their bodies' heat and electrical activity are used as an energy source. Computer programmer "Neo" learns this truth and is drawn into a rebellion against the machines, which involves other people who have been freed from the "dream world".Written and directed by the Wachowski brothers, this classic sci-fi action film stars Keanu Reeves as a lowly computer programmer who discovers his entire existence, and that of all mankind, is nothing but a simulation in a computer. The reality within a reality is a concept that's done before... but never like this - The Matrix requires absolute attention from his audience, least you'll be completely lost in a few minutes. With the help of supporting cast members Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne-Moss, Reeves discovers that inside this simulation environment known as The Matrix, he can control, bend, and manipulate space-time... resulting in some of the most incredibly iconic images to ever grace the silver screen. The slow-motion "bullet-time" effects as they're known today were groundbreaking and revolutionary when we first saw them 12 years ago. Although Reeves is notorious for his inability to really convey much emotional range, his character here lends itself well to him as an actor. This is a movie that makes you think, makes you gasp, and makes totally forget where the 136-minutes went after finishing it. It's no wonder this film spawned two very successful sequels, and dozens of copy-cats. The Matrix, "Visually revolutionary, and mind-blowing." Keanu Reeves plays the main character, Neo, or Thomas A. Anderson and while he is not the perfect actor I think he does a pretty good job in The Matrix. He doesn't have the longest of lines which was probably a deliberate choice from the directors and it works because this gives him a better opportunity to work on posture and facial expressions and I must say that overall his body language is very good. Very clear and well defined. Laurence Fishbourne plays Neo's mentor Morpheus and he does an excellent job of it. His lines flow with a certain confidence and style that makes his character somewhat unique and interesting. Carrie-Anne Moss does a good job as well and succeeds in looking both cool and sexy in her leather outfit. Joe Pantoliano, a critically underrated actor does a brilliant job of bringing his character, Cypher, to life. He also played the roles in Underrated Daredevil (2003)and Bad Boys I & II. I can't say much about him because his character is pretty essential to the plot. Gloria Foster appears in a relatively small role that will have greater significance in the following films and she does a very good job. The best acting is provided by Hugo Weaving, however, in his portrayal of Agent Smith. It is really something to watch him act out the changes in his character. Agent Smith gains some human traits like anger, sense of dread, hate and eventually even a sly sense of humor. Two thumbs way up to Weaving who has created one of the finest screen villains of all time.Effects wise the film is simply stunning and it deservedly was awarded the Oscar for best effects (and was regrettably cheated out of a nomination in the Best Film category) ahead of even Star Wars. The reason that I think The Matrix deserves the Oscar for best effects is simply that the effects in The Matrix are more innovative than the ones in Star Wars. Just take a look at how many times the effects have been spoofed and you'll probably agree. The effects also help in the symbolism of the film and in creating a very dystopia atmosphere not unlike the one seen in Blade Runner and this works brilliantly. The film looks beautiful at all times and today 16 years later (my God has it already been 16 years?) the effects still hold their ground against new science fiction films. Add the effects to the brilliant editing and you have a visual masterpiece on your hands. Very well done.The film also won 4 Academy Awards including for best visual effects. 
10/10 for one of the best epic American science fiction action film's in the history movies like this and Aliens (1986) don't exist anymore. It is one of my personal favorite movies, it is the movie I saw with my mom in the movie theater it is memories on my mom who is no longer with us anymore and I miss he.

20 years after its release, and several years since I last saw it, some reflections on the experience of rewatching The Matrix. In no particular order ...1) It still look great. I mean, this is one amazing, stylish looking phone. Very little about the look of the film has dated - the mobile phones, obviously, Neo's computer, and very briefly a couple of visual effects creak. But otherwise, this looks as amazing at it did on release. It's sumptuous.2) I think I was one of the many who misjudged Keanu Reeves all those yeas ago. I made easy jokes about his vacant stare and apparent intelligent. From this vantage point we can see he's been in a good number of successful, intelligent films. It's also become clear that within the industry he as a reputation as decent, hardworking man who is a pleasure to work with.3) It's apparent again how literate and cine-literate the film is. I knew this 20 years ago, but since then I've seen a lot more films and read a lot more books, and this time around I especially loved the way the film nods its head to other film genres and influences. I noticed a lot of Peckinpah, and did I see a nod to Kurosawa there too? And I was reminded that for an English Literature graduate like me, this is a goldmine of quotes, allusions and references.4) Seen 20 years on, its influence on cinema since is clear. There's a lot we could talk about here, but I was especially struck by how indebted a director like Christopher Nolan is (keeper of the flame of intelligent blockbusters), especially with Inception.5) I'd forgotten that the narrative ostensibly maintains uncertainty about Neo's identity until just before the end. I'm not sure this really works - anyone who's read many books or ever done an anagram will not find that the most suspenseful part of the narrative.6) Despite a run time of 2 and a quarter hours, it never flags and attention never wonders. The film fizzes with kinetic energy and the time flies by. It's a lean film, without a wasted moment.7) The film is, of course, packed with religious allusions. When I wrote a chapter on this for my BA Theology dissertation, I said I thought the film was neo-Bhuddist (forgive the pun, please), and I stand by that on rewatching. Of course, there's lots of allusions to Christian and other theology, and The Matrix spawned some really bad reading of film by Christians which has never really stopped. When will some Christians learn to read a film/book etc with integrity and understanding of what the film is trying to do? It's a spiritually confused mish-mash of a film - but still a gloriously entertaining one.8) All these years later, it turns out The Matrix was somewhat prophetic about the role technology would play in our lives. Humans permanently plugged in to networks? Different layers of reality that are somehow more real than what we think of as real? The Wachowskis saw all that and more coming 20 years ago. Artists are the weather vane of society; we really should learn to pay attention to them.9) Bottom line. I still bloody love this film. I'm trying to work out if I have the requisite strength to revisit the sequels....

What if I told you the Matrix is not a Sci-Fi but a Documentary movie?

In the late 90s, summer blockbusters were really suffering quality. There were films like Godzilla, Armageddon, deep impact etc. Point is that these summer blockbuster movies only focused on special effects due to the groundbreaking effects of Jurassic Park, and forgot to give us engaging stories and compelling characters, which became tiresome. In 1999, the matrix was released and blew everyone's mind. The audience were talking about how deep and philosophical, cerebral film it is, something new and innovative. But is it really that? The answer is, to be honest, no. The idea of a society that realize their reality is an illusion and have to fight authorities is not really new. It has been done in TV episodes, satire, books and many other medium. In fact, even anime did that idea before, just 4 years prior (ghost in the shell). The film is very much outdated, silly, pretentious and not as smart as the movie thinks it is.There are major problems with the movie, particularly the characters. The characters are so dull, uninteresting and bland that it is so hard to get invested in them. Morpheus is your typical mentor figure, Trinity is a boring character, with so little expressions to show and have zero chemistry with Neo, the main character. There is no reason for her to be in love with him. There has not been a single scene which indicates they should be together. And as for Neo, he is as interesting as a plank of wood, having almost no personality, poor facial expressions. And to top it off, there hasn't been a solid proof why he is "the one". There isn't anything special about him, he doesn't have any leadership skills, he doesn't even know what AI is or what EMP stands for.There is also another major problem. And it's a huge plot hole in the film. Why is there a matrix? Why is this system needed? The humans are planted, so why need to give them a matrix? All they need to do is just find a way to keep the human energy alive. The film is so pretentious, and has this confidence that is smart, but has one of the most cop out endings in a blockbuster movie. Trinity saves Neo with the power of love. How is something like that left in a "cerebral", "philosophical" movie, when it has an ending that belongs in fairy tales? It's stupid, forced and doesn't add up.So for all the rant this review has, is the film terrible? Not quite. In fact, it's a decent movie with some clever ideas and analogies, and props for having a major impact on film making and actually trying to do something different in the action genre as well as blockbuster movies, but it's not really the masterpiece it is claimed to be. It's outdated and is deeply flawed. But to some extent, it is understandable why many people love it.

I see that on this site only the positive reviews for this film are promoted to be on the first pages, which is at least one-sided if not preferential. This makes me think I won't even get read by other users yet alone supported by them (since they all find this movie awesome)... but whatever let me tell you what I think about this movie:The Story: Is probably the most important part of this movie and simultaneously the one which this movie gets so awfully wrong.1. The concept of machines imprisoning humans was exploited so many times by so many TV Shows (Stargate SG-1 for example had a similar concept driven episode) and movies (Dark City), so I expected this movie to go deep into why would machines imprison humans and have authenticity in its core. I got 0 of that, in fact what did I got? Some stupid explanation saying the machines imprisoned humans because humans loose energy as heat through their skin. OK, it might seem plausible at first sight, but if you know a little about human or about chemistry you will find this concept ridiculous and impossible. Humans lose through heat about 30% of the energy they consume. So that would mean the machines would have to supply the humans with so much energy and then consume the 30% they lose through heat (basically 100% energy used to keep humans alive to 30% energy remained for machines. That means the machines would lose about 70% of the energy they have or invest into sustaining humans alive) why? Because the script says so. If they have that much energy to sustain humans and their necessities for so long why not kill the humans and stick to maybe consume lightning energy which this movie shows to be very satisfying.2. The explanations Morpheus gives Neo are so thin, maybe thinner than a balloon inflated to its maximum. The Matrix was weaker at the beginning so that they escaped? Why hasn't anyone else escaped? How was the Matrix weaker? Does this movie or the next one in the trilogy explain this? No... But yeah because there's a bad-ass character saying these we all should believe this and then say that this movie is a benchmark for all sci-fi to come? I cannot believe that I'm living on this planet where people are fooled so easily by ridiculous explanations that are so thin and they think that they are smart by watching these kind of movies. Oh, but there's more... when other directors come up with a movie thought over 15 years (Inception) and so authentic and realistically executed that starts from correct premises and then exaggerates like any other movie, people make reviews like: "Overrated because it makes people "feel" smart...". It's incredible that a director that has been making movies since 7 years old and thinks so much about its movies is repaid with bad reviews from people who clearly didn't understood the movie and don't care about dreams, while this movie gets so much praise for having an incorrect premise that just becomes worse as the movie progresses.3. There's no plot twist that can make you say: Yes this movie was thought from start to finish. This movie is just a bunch of action scenes mixed with some poorly explained concepts that have an incorrect scientifically premise and has just enough of all of them to fool the average audiences.The Action: The only part in which this movie succeeded was the action which indeed revolutionized the action flicks back then. Along with the CGI this makes the movie watchable at best (for me at least). But here there are some unexplained things like why if you kiss a person connected to the matrix that person revives and more... becomes even more powerful. It's like a children's movie where the handsome prince kisses the princes or vice versa and she/he wakes up and then they live happily ever after. I expected much more from a movie praised by so many people, but I got 0 explanation for how Neo revives from Trinity's kiss.The Characters: Bland and boring... and so cold especially Morpheus, who was made like this maybe to make him appear more bad-ass. Neo's character is childish for a movie of this magnitude. The chemistry between him and Trinty is not convincing for me. I mean, for the duration of the whole movie she's just kicking ass like Neo, and then they suddenly are lovers... but their relationship has no development because the script is so poor in substance and creates no circumstance in which these characters might interact with each other beside kicking ass and saying one-liners.The Soundtrack: (gotta hurry, word limit) The most bland soundtrack I've heard in my life. For how this movie is promoted as being one of the best ever... I expected a soundtrack that could match this reputation. Actually if you search Don Davis, this composer is known only for Matrix and maybe Jurassic Park III but aside from that, he was never nominated for golden globe, bafta or Oscar (not to say that those matter but other great composers were nominated at least 10 times to Oscars or baftas). There was not a single iconic track in this movie and the score as a whole is just forgettable and underwhelmed.Hope I could include everything I wanted to say in this review. I probably won't get any support for this review, because every person on this planet adores this movie and IMDb supports only good reviews for this movie. And as to why I rate this movie with 5 is because of the CGI and action scenes, because the rest: premise, story, substance or authenticity of the script are either missing or are so thin as a inflated balloon (oh, wait the rating of this movie is as inflated as a inflated balloon... inflated by average people who like only mindless or pseudo-intelligent action).