I still rate this pretty high even if the last 10 minutes got totally out of hand and went crazy, action-wise. By "out-of-hand," I mainly refer to the usual excessive action and bad guys-keep-missing-good guys-even-from-short range-type mentality. Actually, a lot of the film is that but it's such a fun movie that I didn't care.Jason Statham is very cool in the lead and it's he that makes this a decent film. I also enjoyed Shu Qi, a very pretty woman; the witty dialog of Francois Berleand and some stylish, tongue-in-cheek directing by Louis Leterrier and Corey Yuen. Another director whose films are known for their hip styles also co- wrote this: Luc Besson.Some of the action scenes are outrageous. To Statham's credit, he did most of the action scenes himself. I guess he's a tough guy in real life, too. He's pretty amazing.A no-brainer-but lots of fun movie.

There's no question that Luc Besson is one of Europe's biggest action producers. I mean with the cult classics "La Femme Nikita" (1991) and "The Professional" (1994) behind him, he's basically been given the green-light for every big action picture he comes across. One of his latest and most ambitious projects was "The Transporter," released in 2002.I have to admit this is one flick I approached with a very open mind - very open. I mean, I like Jason Statham. I think he's a pretty cool guy and at first, even I questioned his casting as Frank Martin in "The Transporter." But the problem is, and I'm assuming this is the result of the quickly edited action scenes (which were toned down to make the film "PG-13"), he's not being given the room to really be the best he can be.As the lead character, he's a transporter. He can get you, your associates or your property anywhere, anytime, on time, no questions asked. But you know what? Common sense tells us that it was curiosity that killed the cat, and the cat in this picture thankfully doesn't die some horrible death but instead, curiosity yields him a break - a beautiful woman named Lai (Shu Qi) - bound and gagged, and in the trunk of his BMW.It's not spoiling much that she and Frank get together and as a result, are forced to do battle with shady and vicious American businessman Wall Street (Matt Schulze) and his army of high-kicking, disposable assassins. There's a little more to the plot and Lai, and the circumstances surrounding her appearance in the trunk of Frank's car, and it involves some smuggling of poor Chinese immigrants from China to Europe, where much of the action takes place.Speaking of action and there's plenty of it, Statham does display some pretty impressive moves but the frantic editing just doesn't do him justice. He obviously worked out for this part and there are frequent moments when his ripped torso is on display. He also (barely) manages to shy away any possible accusations that he's just a British novelty to American audiences. Director Corey Yuen (whose work on Jet Li's 2001 action film "Kiss of the Dragon" I admired), is behind it and Besson's got a producer credit.The problem may not be Statham because I think he's a really cool actor with a raspy British accent, but the script is worth some deeper examination by more thoughtful minds. There are plenty of holes and unanswered questions (i.e., the extent of Frank's military training and experiences, Lai and how she wound up with Frank and her quarrelsome relationship with her father who is played by Ric Young, and the plot with the Chinese smuggling).But why am I making such complaints? "The Transporter" is an action movie; no plot required. Despite some bumps in the road, "The Transporter" is pure action fun from beginning to end, and I got my free ticket to see "The Transporter 2" on Friday.7/10

Nearby Nice, Frank Martin (Jason Statham) transports and delivers illegal cargoes. His business is supported by three basic rule: Rule no. 1 – The deal is never to be changed; Rule No. 2 – No names; and Rule No. 3 – Never watch the cargo. The day he breaks his own rules, he realizes he is transporting a Chinese girl, Lai (Qi Shu), and he gets in many troubles due to his fault. This movie is pure action having all the usual clichés: car chasing, explosions, fights when nobody uses guns, the lead actor gets some kind of involvement with the victim etc. But the choreography is excellent and the action scenes are great.  Jason Statham recalls Bruce Willis in `Die Hard'. If the viewer do not think, he will have an enjoyable entertainment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): `Carga Explosiva' (Explosive Cargo')

Back in the 1990s Luc Besson was a top action director in the US and France, best known for films like Leon and Nikita. In the early part of the 21st Century, he turned to producing and one of his major hits was The Transporter, the film that made Jason Statham into an action star.Frank Martin (Statham) is an ex-military man who turned into a driver for hire in the South of France. He lives by three rules: No.1 never change the deal, No.2 no names, No.3 never open the package. But on a job he opens the package to find a Chinese woman (Shu Qi) tied up and gag, resulting with him crossing an American gangster, Bettencourt (Matt Schulze) who wants Frank dead. Frank has to work with the woman, Lai, and a police detective, Inspector Tarconi (François Berléand), to bring down Bettencourt and his operator.The Transporter takes a basic B-Movie plot and story and gives it an MTV flash. The highlight of the film is action sequences which director Corey Yuen injected a load of fun elements with martial arts, gun battles, an axe fight and the famous oil fight scene. There are flashy moments like when a gun is in the air and the downwards camera on a gun when a machine gun magazine clip drops to the ground. There is some weak CGI but it is rare and the best parts of the action is the practical effects and stunt work. The real problem with the action is at times there was too much quick cutting which made some of the action sequence and it made them hard to follow: this was the particularly the case with the fight in the bus which was too tight, too close and overly edited. The best sequence for me was the highway chase because it was easier to tell what was happening and for the most part the fighting and gun fights were well done.The Transporter was Statham's first leading role outside of Guy Ritchie's films. He had the action chops with his physique and his martial arts ability and he was already showing his shy wit. But he gave his character a weak American accent which kept slipping. Likely Statham had enough charisma and was able to give Frank enough menace in his look. Statham also had very good chemistry with Qi who did have charm as Lai. The pair worked well and were surprisingly believable in the context of their world.The Transporter lacked a threaten villain: Schulze played his role more as a man who is partier then a ruthless crime lord who will kill anyone who crosses him. Schulze's performance also did not help giving the character smug, frat boy characteristics. The film also introduces a character called Leon who was able to beat up and knock out Frank, leading you to think that there is going to be a showdown between the characters: but it never comes about, which is very disappointing.Stanley Clarke gave The Transporter a more modern, techno score which was fitting for the most part, especially when it becomes pumping for the action sequences near the end. The score combined by the French setting reminded me a little bit of The Bourne Identity. But The Bourne Identity is a much more intelligentially stimulating film.The Transporter is a very paced actioner that does not rest. There are fine action sequences throughout the film and a decent start to The Stath's action persona: but this is a film for Statham fans.

I first saw this a few years ago, on a rainy day and I nipped into the cinema in the late afternoon to get dry and warm. How glad am i? A film that basically came out of nowhere and helped secure Jason Statham's reputation as being the hardest Englishman in the business (Vinnie Jones? Please!) and one of the most popular actors in America. Its pure adrenaline from the first car case, right through to the homo-erotic but brilliantly choreographed oil fight. Statham's no Tom Hanks in the acting stakes - but then he is not required to be. He's required to look hard as nails and run, jump and punch a lot. Which he does - a lot. The biggest let down of the film was the weak ending. You know that the girl will save his life and kill her father, you know it - but you really don't want it to happen and when it does, well - lets just say that every time i watch the ending I want to throw the TV out the window. Anyway - pure blokes film, great fights, great stunts, cars, guns, sexy woman and it may never win any awards for best screenplay, but that doesn't mean its not worth checking out. And if your girlfriend/boyfriend complains - just mention buffed up men with no shirts on, covered in oil.

The first time I watched this movie, I was hooked, I think it is a sleeper cult classic.This movie has all the makings of a great testosterone flick. It starts with a wild car chase in France, introduces some memorable phrases, adds an attractive woman and antagonist with a very bad hair piece. There is also the required explosions and fight scenes, but they are not over-the-top.The plot is not spectacular, but hey, it's a guy movie. Jason Statham makes a great tough guy, loved him in The Italian Job as well.I recommend inviting your friends over, grabbing some Orangina, and watching this great movie.

A hard-boiled ex-soldier (Jason Statham) runs a private 'transporting' business in which he moves goods for clients from point A to point B, no questions asked, no packages opened and no names exchanged. One day, he breaks his own rule by opening the large bag he is transporting and finds a beautiful gagged woman (Qi Shu) in it.Jason Statham of Snatch and Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels fame slips into the buff testosterone-fuelled action-hero role with almost effortless conviction and the perfection with which he delivers his cheesy lines deserves credit ("All right, that's enough juice for now."). From the campy winks, the fast-paced drop-kicks and packing punches and just generally badass attitude, Statham clearly masters the B-action genre. He knows what he needs to do to entertain the audience, and he does it like he means business. Hardcore, in other words.However his "American" accent clearly deserves less credit. If you were BLOWN AWAY by Kevin Costner in Prince of Thieves or Natalie Portman in V for Vendetta, you will like his efforts. Ditto Qi Shu whose performance keeps us guessing (mostly about what the hell she is saying). In all fairness, I thought she was really cute as Lai – the woman who complicates things by popping up from the bag, but also viciously annoying with her little high-pitched girly screams and submissive approach. Thankfully, Statham and Shu's on-screen chemistry makes up for this and facilitates the whole plot on an important, fundamental level. Because they are so different (macho-man vs. girly girl), they somehow look great juxtaposed.This plot never strays from its template story. Ever. It's simple. It's straightforward. It's action-packed and amazingly fast-paced. Twenty minutes fly past like five. But enough praise, because "The Transporter" really isn't a good movie. Even if you're looking for cheap adrenaline kicks this would not be the first film I'd recommend (it's probably be Poseidon [2006], ha) -- this simply lacks 'oomph' and the good guys are too GOOD and the bad guys are too BAD. Nothing new -- next, please!6/10

I love that choreography and many explotions. Must watching!

Usually I do not watch these types of films, but this one was recommended to me by a friend so I watched it.It was OK action film. Scenes of car chases are excellent. So is the scenery of the Cote dAzur. It brings back memories of those times I spent in Sant Tropez swimming and chasing young female tourists. Those were the times. Aaaaaaaaaa. Well it still happens every summer, I wish European summers were longer, for they pass way too quickly.Acting is good, the actors were not up to my high standards.Tho plot is typical for these types of films, what can I say.If you are into these types of films, this is the one to choose.

i liked it. it took me a long time to finally watch one of these films (how many are there again?), but it was better than i expected.i can't say i just love Luc Besson. i find him interesting but that's about it. i can't say i relate to a movie based on what? some BMW promo series on the internet? you gotta be kidding. how (no pun) commercial.actually this film seemed loosely based on Walter Hill's film 'The Driver' which was much deeper and a better film. this film was just more cranked up and testosterone charged. that doesn't always make a better film. Walter Hill's film has a better script, is more reflective and is a good example of contemporary (contemporary enough, that was the 80's) film noir.in defense of 'Transporter' i will say this. it wasn't Michael Bay, and at least in this first film (haven't seen the others), it used real stunts and not a lot of CGI stunts. i miss the old days when a stunt or an explosion was done for real and not just done with CGI (even when it's state of the art you can always tell it's CGI). it was to the 'Transporter's' credit that they actually staged pretty much all the stunts unlike 'Transformers' which had a lot of the action inter-spliced with CGI effects.i didn't think the plot was so bad or nonexistent, it was just kind of simple. but it had a good message about not treating human beings like slaves or commodities. it was solidly directed if not a little too "busy", and the actors were likable and sexy and, let's face it, Jason Statham is outrageous to watch in action. a sort of European Bruce Lee.not gonna make any attempt to say this was great cinema or anything, but it was entertaining, pretty much did what it professed to do, and it probably should be treated with a little bit more respect than it seems to have gotten from critics and audiences.