It is no wonder that the film has such a high rating, it is quite literally breathtaking. What can I say that hasn't said before? Not much, it's the story, the acting, the premise, but most of all, this movie is about how it makes you feel. Sometimes you watch a film, and can't remember it days later, this film loves with you, once you've seen it, you don't forget.The ultimate story of friendship, of hope, and of life, and overcoming adversity.I understand why so many class this as the best film of all time, it isn't mine, but I get it. If you haven't seen it, or haven't seen it for some time, you need to watch it, it's amazing. 10/10.

I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption. Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams.  And what is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope.  Even though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are going through.It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message.  Frank Darabont didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to love this film, the narration and the acting does that for him.  Why this movie didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that sway you to not see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list sway you, let your friends recommendation about the movie sway you.Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie.  You will finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will understand why this is my all time favorite movie.

The best movie in history and the best ending in any entertainment business

Two imprisoned men (Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman) bond over a number of years, finding solace and eventual redemption through acts of common decency.Is this the greatest film of all time? IMDb would have you believe so. Despite being a box office flop (that barely recouped its budget), the film received multiple award nominations and outstanding reviews from critics for its acting, story, and realism. It has since been successful on cable television, VHS, DVD, and Blu-ray.And it deserves this praise that seems to be growing each year. Now twenty years old, the film has not aged a day, and instead seems to be getting better. This is Tim Robbins' best role, and a fine performance from the always wonderful Morgan Freeman.

The reason I became a member of this database is because I finally  found a movie ranking that recognized the true greatness of this movie. There  is nary a word or scene out of place in the entire thing. Every element  comes together to form an exquisite story for cinema.   I believe that one reason that this movie is under-appreciated is that  people have not seen it multiple times. On first viewing it is the story of  Andy Dufresne and his struggle to maintain hope despite his circumstances.   However, this is really a movie about Red and his struggle to find  meaning and purpose. The final segment of the movie testifies to the fact that the final resolution of the story comes about only when Red is faced with the same fearful situation as Brooks. Because of Andy, Red can find a different path-the path of freedom that is lit by hope.  Who is your Andy Dufresne?

My life is forever changed due to this movie.  It is a movie of hope, "redemption", and friendship.  It shows a deep growing friendship between two prisoners, Andy and Red.  They each are shown growing through their distinct hardships at Shawshank prison.  As time passes, hope wanes but a flame burns bright in Andy.  His hope and unrelentless nature carry over to his friend Red.As Red's long stay in prison comes to an end he sees the light at the end of the tunnel.  Andy has left it for him to see the way to freedom, and he follows it.This film parallels my life and leaves me wondering if my advice will help somebody see the light.  For some of those people time will tell.  As for now I'll be patient to wait and see.  Don't end up like Brooks, there will always be someone to help you out.  There is someone out there that cares for you.  Thank you Andy Dufresne, your hope is the flame of my life.

There's a reason this is rated the #1 . It is the same reason you watch this movie every time you see it on tv even if it's already half way over. It's captivating, brilliant and full of heart. It's one of the best films ever made.

!!Spoilers to this movie, as well as to Sixth Sense and Citizen Kane just for spite!!Shawshank Redemption is one of those movies that oozes with "give me an Oscar pleeeeeease" all over it. You know the type  - like "Dances with Wolves." Oversentimental and overlong. It's surprising that this movie has such a high imdb ranking considering it's such a very black and white (prisoners=good, prison-keepers=evil) movie rehashing what's been hashed and hashed many times.The story concerns an apparently-wrongly-convicted banker Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) who is sentenced to life at Shawshank Prison in that creepiest of states, Maine, for murdering his wife and her lover. His main 'friend' at Shawshank is wily old-time-prisoner named Red (Morgan Freeman). Nobody can deny that Morgan Freeman is one of the greatest actors ever, and I'm not going to. Tim Robbins also gives a performance that one wouldn't guess he had in him by watching, say, "Nothing to Lose" (which nevertheless is a better movie). And the supporting cast is all excellent in roles that are incredibly one-dimensional. Okay, that's it for the good. Here comes the bad, and the ugly.Early on in the film, Red, who doubles as the narrator, tells us that although he'd like to tell us Andy wasn't gang-raped by some of the fellow inmates (the only bad inmates in there, by the way, and then they get sent away, so that leaves only good ones) but he can't, cause "that'd be a fairytale.  And there are no fairytales here at Shawshank." How wrong he is! The whole movie is a fairytale (albeit without any of the excitement and fast-pace of one).We get characters who are so completely good as to be Saints for our two main prisoners (and most of the other ones) and the Prison guards and warden who all seem to be variations on the evil stepmother from Cinderella and the evil stepmother from Snow White (heck, they're so evil, their intramural baseball team's name is the Marauders. Gee, I wonder if you people get the hidden message?).The story itself is about two-and-a-half hours of sadism (very slow-paced sadism, mind you), an hour of philosophical jabbering that, frankly, is far inferior to a philosophy class at the college if you're into that sort of thing (Hope is Good? Oh my God! What a revelation! Tell me more! Honestly, I've heard songs which have more depth than this movie!) And half an hour of the ending.It's hard to talk about the faults of the movie without giving away the ending, because, the ending itself is one of the main ones. All good movies have an ending that makes you think (or at least are somewhat open to interpretation, and/or sequels). But not this one. Although I counted at least five or six points where the movie could have ended with leaving some room for thought, it follows through to the bitter predictable end. It's as if it's saying "you know what, you viewers are all idiots, we better not let you think about anything at all." Even if that was true, it's quite insulting.  What's more is the ending is incredibly predictable. How could it not be, if it's told to you in the title of the movie? I mean, imagine if the Sixth Sense was called "The Dead Psychologist" or Citizen Kane was called "The Sled" (sorry, imdb censorship guys, I know this makes your job harder, but I just can't think of a way to explain it otherwise).And I haven't even mentioned the worst part. This movie is incredibly long and boring. It's not a movie that is "slow" or "moves at its own pace" - those are alright by me. No, this movie, something is always happening, but not a single thing of interest. And like that for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours. Okay, that's a bit of an exaggeration. But still.Another thing is this movie's already-mentioned assumed self-importance. It's irritating at the least. It's a long, boring, unoriginal version of what Cinderella would be if somebody traded in all the women characters for swearing, rape and police brutality. I mean, frankly, Charles Perrot beat you to it by four centuries, that's close to an all time record for unoriginality!

The Shawshank Redemption has great performances, extremely well written script and story all leading to a deeply emotional climax! One of the best dramas of all time!