Jack Campbell (Nicolas Cage) is a big investment broker who leads a shallow personal life. One night, he tries to help out Cash (Don Cheadle) in a confrontation with a convenience store clerk. Cash is so impressed that he gives Jack a glimpse into the road not traveled. 13 years ago, he could have married Kate (Téa Leoni) and become a family man. Now he gets to see what could have been.It's got all the awkward father scenes like changing diapers. Nicolas Cage gets the reluctant father fairly well. The scenes with the kid (Makenzie Vega) is especially funny.Cage could do a better job being less angry. It's really off putting in a romantic movie. Luckily most of that can be ameliorated with Téa Leoni. Then it goes off into some uncomfortable territory. I've got to say that 'It's a Wonderful Life' never went down that road. It goes into more serious matter than a simple fable. It could have gone onto the wrong road many times, but eventually it gets on track. Although I would try a slightly different track for the ending. There's a really big piece missing from the way it ends here.

"Family Man" had enough humor, drama, sediment, and chemistry between it's stars, to make for a good movie. Nicholas Cage stars as a rich business exec and womanizing bachelor who is forced to relive a decision he made to leave his college girlfriend, Tea Leoni, for a banking internship in London. In the alternate reality Cage is transported to, he finds himself significantly less wealthy in terms of money, but the upside, he discovers over time, is a loving family to come home too. Watching Cage's character evolve into the role is one of the most heartfelt parts of the movie. Tea Leoni, underrated and underused, is always a pleasure to watch, as well. The movie, overall, is pretty familiar but will still make you laugh and smile.

The Family Man (2000)Because this is a Christmas movie, I've now seen it twice, and it's really not bad at all. The best aspects, like Don Cheadle, are too brief, and the plot is sometimes rammed into position by sentiment and a need to be popular. But it eventually makes sense and you come around to see the ordinary charm that pervades.Not that Nicolas Cage is exactly charming. He's painted as a spoiled stockbroker jerk, both in life and in his dream. But like a Scrooge seen from within, and seeing an alternate life before his eyes, he has the revelation that changes his life. His arrogance slowly dissolves, and that's maybe what he learns most from the dream.Téa Leoni is chipper and realistic in her cute way and makes for a love interest that isn't an over-idealized cliché, thankfully. And so she draws him into her life with natural ease. It's too easy of course, and there are unanswered questions—even "It's a Wonderful Life" is more believable in that sense, the logic of an alternative life—but it's fine by the end. And in fact, dreams do whatever they want, so there it is.Add this to the growing list of movies that play with this profound and fun idea of seeing what your life would be like ifif whatever, if things had been different, or if you had been better. It's worth seeing on a lazy evening.

One of my guilty favourite movies that always sucks me right in. Cage plays a rich, ruthless business man who is shown the life he might have led (by guardian angel Don Cheadle )if he'd made a different choice. In A Wonderful Life kind of way he wakes up in suburbia with a mini van, bad suits and a couple of kids, but he also has true love with ex-girlfriend (Tea Leoni).I love the relationship here between Jack and his daughter -its so sweet, she sees through him and thinks he's an alien that's replaced her father.Cage is, Cage but this was made back before he stopped caring so he has some great moments. Leoni makes me smile in every one of her scenes, she's so genuine and happy and goofy amidst the chaos of their life. One of those warm-fuzzy movies.

I don't know why exactly that this movie always makes me cry in the end, but it does. I have watched this movie many, many times over the years and I think, perhaps, the "I choose Us" line always suckers me in because, after being married myself for 43 years to the same wonderful man, I see this movie through the eyes of a person who fought together with her partner for 44 years altogether to keep "us" together. I won't even read the negative reviews in here about this movie. It's too special to me to ruin it by reading what sadder people who either they or their partners did not choose each other in the end and are jaded about relationships and/or marriage.That is my connection to this well crafted do-over movie. But it's not the only reason I love this movie. The story is never rushed or taken lightly. It is a true love story between two soul mates who lost their way before their lives even started. And honestly? Nicholas Cage has never been better in any movie he made. I don't know what went on during the filming of this story, but I have seen Cage in many other movies and this is him at his very best. We get to live inside this story with them. I loved Tea Leone in Deep Impact. She is a rare actress who slips into her roles with elegance and humor unparalleled by any contemporary actress. Watching this movie, you see a rare connection between these two characters that Hallmark and Lifetime can never seem to reproduce in any of their movies (but I still watch them!). I fall in love with this couple every single time I watch this movie because these two great actors make love beautiful. They make giving up dreams and getting married and having a family in a suburban house look perfect. They pull off a romance in this movie that is sublime. And that is worth 10 stars under any circumstances!

Hunker down, kiddies, it's time for a two-hour schmaltz-a-thon. This movie not only tugs at your heartstrings, it rips the strings out and whips you with them. Subtlety ain't this film's strong suit.Nicolas Cage plays a slick Wall Street powerbroker (the only kind in Hollywood, and probably real life as well) who has it all: money, money, money, and power. Jack Campbell's lacking a family, but he doesn't see that as a bad thing. He's also driven, obsessed with improving the company he works for - he even schedules a "crisis meeting" on Christmas Day. This guy's got balls, all right. He's making loot hand over fist, and he's probably on his way to an ulcer or a heart attack before he hits fifty.On Christmas Eve, he gets a phone message from an ex-girlfriend (Tea Leoni). Years earlier, the two of them had made a decision crucial to their lives - he went to England to intern with a prestigious bank, and she went to one of the finest law schools in the country. This facilitated their breakup, but since Jack's made out rather well in the interim, he pays the call little mind. Then that night, he stops by a convenience store to pick up some egg nog. An irate lottery player (the always reliable and watchable Don Cheadle) pulls a gun on the clerk behind the counter. Jack offers to buy the man's lottery ticket in an effort to calm the situation, and even attempts to rehabilitate the hoodlum. "Cmon," Jack tells him, "everyone needs something." "What do you need?" Cash asks him. Jack considers the point, then replies there's nothing he needs. "Ok," says Cash, "but just remember, you got yourself into this." Hmm.The next morning, Jack wakes up in bed with the lovely, the delicious, the married-in-real-life-to-David Duchovny Tea Leoni. And he has two kids. And a dog. And whoa! This isn't Jack's life, is it? He doesn't like kids! And here they come, bouncing on the bed he shares with Kate. It's Christmas Day, after all. But Jack's in shock. He panics, grabs the keys to their minivan (Hey! Where's his Porsche?) and dashes off to the city. What's going on?Seems Cash is some kinda sorta angel or something (it's never really explained), and he's offering Jack a "glimpse" of what his life would havebeen like if he had stuck with Kate back in the day. Now, those of us who are of a certain age do wonder from time to time what life would have been like if different decisions had been made. Jack's problem is that his wonderment is now his reality. And it's most certainly not the reality he's looking for! The Single Jack is a hedonist who recognizes only responsibilities to his job. The Married Jack pays more attention to his familial responsibilities.So we have a general fish-out-of-water scenario. Jack knows he's Single Jack, and naturally he has neither knowledge nor memory of life as Married Jack. He doesn't know his friends, his in-laws, his co-workers (he works as a tire salesman!), nothing. He doesn't even know where he lives! Ah yes, mad hijinks ensue. It's like in that Jim Carrey movie The Truman Show - the audience is in on the joke, but the lead character has no idea. See Jack stumble over gettin' jiggy with his wife! See him mumble greetings to friends he doesn't know! See him stand with his mouth agape most of the time, trying in vain to absorb everything.And, of course, see Jack wrap things up neatly. Too bad it's a two-hour sojourn into schmaltz, though. The problem with the movie isn't that it's sentimental, it's that it's a preachy film, desperate to teach us that Marriage Is Good. And think about it - how many guys do you know are married to someone who looks like Tea Leoni (and is a nice person, too), who goes to work at a tire place with a song in their hearts, who has a loving family with two perfect kids? This life doesn't exist, and damn this movie for making the married versus single issue seem so black and white. Single >bad, marriage = good.The best sentimental films teach lessons with such subtlety that you don't realize you've learned anything until well after the closing credits have rolled. The worst of these films takes a lesson that most people know anyway and proceeds to whack the living crap out of you with it. Ok, ok! I get it! Married life = good things. Got it, ok. And thankfully, Jack got it, too, or we'd still be watching this drivel.

Without going into too much of the main storyline (you can read the reviews for that) I'll say that this movie is a very touching look at "what might have been." While I'm not a Cage fan, I'll give kudos to him, in that he portrayed his confused character masterfully. His struggles from realizing that he has left his high-octane business/playboy life for a simple family life are fun to watch.And Tea Leoni....woohoo!Nice holiday movie. Probably not one for the younger kids, due to some content (Tea's shower scene is STUNNING!) and innuendo, but definitely one you can be entertained by. 7 out of 10 stars.

(Possible spoilers and a rant on Teaneck ahead)Brett Ratner's The Family Man has things going for it that many people wont know (or maybe just not care to know).  I remember about a year ago, right near my house, this film was being made.  True, it isn't much of importance, but knowing this, it made watching this film even more enjoyable.  And while other people probably won't give a hoot when I say that, hey, I know where that Bloomingdales is or, hey I've seen that house without the fake snow or even, hey that's not the Teaneck public library. I just want to say that in case people wonder why this film gets such a grade it gets, and how that location setting can be a big boost instead of in a studio.Because, as a film, The Family Man bears striking resemblances to It's a Wonderful Life, except when you substitute Jimmy Stewart for Nic Cage, there can be a drop off.  Even so, Cage does do a good job in this film, and making it almost shine as a rich guy who finds everything he worked for in 13 years disappears into Jersian suburbia, thanks to Don Cheadle.  Then, he discovers that his life could've been different if it had only been for one choice.The conventiality and often corniness spoils the film like a under-roasted turkey, but it is saved (slightly) by the performances by Cage, Cheadle, and especially Tea Leoni as a loving yet often confused wife (that and the New Jersey locations).  One of the better romantic dramedies of the year. B+

Although this movie doesn't break any new ground, it's a fun couple of hours. I just saw this a day or two ago and moderately enjoyed it. The message of the movie was obviously that all the wealth in the world can't replace having someone to share your life with. While parts of family man were a bit sappy and not very original, there was enough sweetness and fun moments to make it a fun, if not exceptional viewing experience.I think kudos go to the makers of Family Man for their casting of Cage and Leone in the lead roles, they were both perfect for the roles in question. I read some of the negative comments and can actually understand them. The movie does romantisize an awful lot. Still, I felt they were on target with much of it. Of coarse, not everyone who is rich and single is unhappy, not at all, but I think Cage's character was meant to be more of a caricature of one particular type of Person(The Eagles "desperado" comes to mind). I have seen this type of situation in real life amongst people I've known (the achievement of a certain lifestyle) and the "money don't buy happiness" theory happens to be in many cases true. Everyone makes choices in life but wouldn't it be fun to be able to get a peek into how one's life would have turned out if a different choice would have been made? This is a movie that's not heavy at all, to the contrary, it's very sweet and light and so mawkishly sappy at times. Still it makes you think. I'd give it a 7 of 10 and say it's worth a night's viewing.

Arguably Nicholas Cages best movie, the family man is purely heartwarming fluff. The characters are well cast and well acted, Leoni and Cage have great chemistry, and the kids are so cute. The storyline is well developed and the ending is perfect. Love!

Jack Campbell (Nick Cage) is a successful, talented, happy businessman on the top of the world. On Christmas Eve, while at a convenience store, he runs into a semi-helpful guy who offers him a glimpse of what life would be like if he had stayed with a previous girlfriend. Before you can utter "Holy Clichéd movie, Batman!", Jack is transported to a life of changing snotty nosed babies diapers and other pitfalls of married life. The topper being that he now lives in New Jersey (the horror, the horror).Don't get me wrong I DO like this film, despite the ultra-simplistic moral that if you don't have someone to love you, you can never be truly happy no matter how much you think you are. If you don't have someone in your life, then you're just deluded in your happiness. That type of BS will NEVER sail with me. I like it, despite the amount of syrupy sweetness is enough to put Mother Theresa into a diabetic induced coma. It is well-acted and I was hardly ever bored, so that should count for something.My Grade: C+DVD Extras:Commantary with Director Brett Radner and Writers David Diamond & David Weissman; Second Commentary with Producer Marc Abraham; Music Score Commentary with Danny Elfman; A 20 minute Spotlight on Location featurette; 9 Deleted Footage; 6 Outtakes; Montage of people saying Jack; Seal 'This could be Heaven' Music Video; a lame Choose your Fate game; Opening scene with Alternative Music; Production Info; Cast & Crew Biographies; and Theatrical TrailerDVD-ROM: Script to Screen Comparison; Screensaver; Wallpaper