This movie is very funny.I laughed out loud a lot.A lot of people here criticize it as if it was supposed to be some serious movie.Its a silly and sexy comedy with a lot of adult language.If you are offended by sex jokes its not the movie for you.I think Diaz and Applegate were great in it and its soooo refreshing to see actresses not being afraid to make fools of themselves on screen.

It was absolutely horrendous and I loved every second of it.

The problem is the first scene - before the opening credits - is amusing, which lures you into the film. It is all watchable - if predictable - as the story develops in the first quarter, but then it becomes completely absurd. It is a collection of tacky, vulgar and anarchic ideas, many of which have been used so many times before in the last 50 years they are worn out. Their solution to this lack of originality was to imbue these scenes with as much verbal and physical sexual shock value as they could muster. It is as if they wrote it as they went along, a tenuous central storyline with a motley collection of disjointed, absurd and - too often - puerile scenes added in. It is not for adults, it is not really funny, it is schoolboy (girl?) humour for 12 year olds merely designed to show what you can get away with under the guise of being comic.

I'm a lover of films, especially one that can make me laugh. I try not to be too harsh with my opinions, in that I am a documentary maker myself, but I was shocked to read through the user comments for this movie, and find many of them praising this poor excuse for entertainment. I regrettably sat through this slow, simple, forced comedy, never once so much as cracking a smile. The plot was nonexistent (something to be expected and excused in this genre), but in a comedy, there is typically...comedy. Every gag seemed to be derived from a funny inside joke, like the old food in the car. Nothing is worse than going to a movie and consistently getting that "guess you had to be there" feeling. My only pity of this movie was for the fantastic Jason Bateman, who must have been slipped a mickey to have signed onto this project. Now that the movie has been out of theaters, I don't need to say "don't waste your money"...I can simply say don't waste your time.

Unfortunately this movie does NOT set a new low for trash from Hollywood--although it does try very hard. However, combined with its lack of plot, an almost complete lack of any good humor whatsoever, this movie is one I wouldn't watch again to save my soul.Three women engage in incredibly boorish and self-indulgent behavior. The song about too-large members was quite gratuitous. The "glory hole" scene was entirely execrable, incredibly unnecessary, completely unrelated to the plot and without redeeming value whatsoever. Its only reason for inclusion seems to be to add to the putrid pile of impurity of which this movie is an absolute wellspring.Only the fact that this movie flopped at the box office gives me any hope whatsoever for the taste of the movie-going public.

this is the only film that my husband and I actually stopped watching half-way through and thought about asking for a refund and we watched The Thirteenth Warrior all the way through so that should give you some indication of our "bad movie threshold"so badI get the gross out comedy genre but this just went beyond the pale. Gross out for gross out sake is just revolting to me. Songs about blow j*bs and @n@l sex don't require talent to write and don't entertain me when they are performed, poorly I might add.Perhaps I've just matured past this mindless drivel.

it could be just me but i really love this movie. i don't know one girl who doesn't have it in their DVD collection and i'm proud to be one of them....the movie is funny, stupid, and all around a good time. so its not gonna win any awards or looked upon as "superior" but come on, don't you remember what its like to watch a movie just for the sake of entertainment? i have a section of my movie collection devoted to those chick flicks that while embarrassing to have are my guilty pleasures and i can't feel bad for that. what more do you want out of a stupid/funny movie? please don't pull some critical analysis on this movie people cause it is what it is. take it for face value and relax...

While not meant to be taken at all seriously, The Sweetest Thing is a great movie to watch with the gals when you're looking for something light and funny. It's almost like the female There's Something About Mary; it has a lot of bathroom humor, which I usually am not really amused by, but this works, and it's basically just about three best friends just being happy, which is a nice message for a change. I couldn't believe the things in it, though, since I thought the movie was PG-13 the first time I watched it. O_o The best touch is that it's slightly absurd, like Wet Hot American Summer, which brings in more attention and unparalleled amusement. Highly recommended for girls--they'd enjoy it a lot more than guys...it's the Rated R Chick Flick.7/10--rather silly, but cute and feel good all the same ^_^

I cannot express in words how bad this movie is but I'm going to try.First, I can't imagine what demographic this movie was supposed to appeal to. Or are there enough superficial shallow bimbos in their very late twenties whose brains are made of cotton candy walking this earth to actually have caused someone to think this movie could make money?Christina Applegate and Cameron Diaz in this film are not sexy, not funny, they're simply annoying beyond comprehension. They were what I would imagine their real life counterparts would be like, more so Cameron Diaz. I'm sure she didn't tap into her "acting talent" one bit to perform this role. She just showed up on set and somehow memorized her lines.I can imagine the executive in Hollywood who approved this script is some old, horny, fat, repulsive swine with a huge cigar in his mouth and whiskey on his desk. Wheezing with laughter as he read the script while his fat lips watered at the thought of either of the two leads getting naked. I'm sure he was incredibly disappointed to find neither of them actually got naked in the film, which in a desperate sort of way, would have been the only thing that could have even remotely made this film worth watching.I can't remember very many details from this film, probably my subconscious protecting me from mental trauma, but I do remember feeling all the more stupid for having watched this.Christina Appelgate's character meets Thomas Jane's character in a nightclub which instantly annoyed me. Who the hell goes to a nightclub to meet the man of their dreams? She becomes fond of him, in the only way a superficial tramp can become fond of someone, and decides to chase him down via a road trip to stop his imminent wedding and profess her crush/lust whatever to him. Thomas Jane is cool though, he starred in a movie called "Thursday", which is a great sleeper of a film. However having him in the film was like putting a band-aid on a gunshot wound, that just wasn't enough to fix it.You won't enjoy this unless you're a stupid, self centered, shallow, ditsy yet sarcastic and fairly heartless bimbo. Even then if you watch this movie and like it there is absolutely no hope for you, you know who you are.You've been warned.

I never write film reviews but this is possibly the worst thing I've ever seen. Why any of the actors did this is beyond my comprehension. They are all so much better than this. It wasn't funny. A total embarrassment.

I've read many of the comments left by previous viewers.  If you glance over them, you will notice a pattern.  Most of the scathing, heated comments are left by men, while the praising and positive ones are left by women.  That should leave you with this logical conclusion.  This is not a movie that most men will enjoy.  This is a movie primarily aimed at single women (although I'm married and I found it amusing).  Also, I realized that for some reason, people just can't seem to resist comparing this to "There's Something About Mary."  I could be wrong, but I don't think this is supposed to be a sequel or anything of the sort, so why compare?  It's two different movies.  If you're a single female, who likes to have fun and not take things so seriously, I would highly recommend this movie.  If you're male or of the Ethan Frome-type movie goer--then this is not for you. Enjoy.

I'll watch anything, I don't usually care about an in-depth plot or an outstanding finale, if it's entertaining i'm happy. Unfortunately, The Sweetest Thing, was not ENTERTAINING it was just pointless drivel that went on-and-on trying to make sense of just WHY exactly Diaz would go to the extremes she did to get her man. So what was the bottom-line: 'Never stop looking for Mr. Right'? 'It's better to have loved and lost'? Surely not, she meet her Mr. Right in a club, she didn't love him and he was never hers to loose in the first place. She was 'hurt' because he never told her he was getting married. No because he only meet her the day before, did she want his life story? Perhaps he thought he'd never see her again. You meet alot of people in clubs that you never see again, right.Humor. Humor? Oh the sex jokes? That's right, sex jokes and it's the girls having a go at them. It's ok for a girl to make sex jokes, same for boys, but these sex jokes were the bad the worse and the ugly. They weren't funny, just childish and degrading to females. Don't get me wrong, I did get some laughs out of it, but it wasn't clever humor, it was more like pity humor. But hey, I'm not saying everything considered comedy has to have you in stitches, it's just not the kind of thing I laugh at.The characters. Apart from Jason Bateman, I didn't like any of the characters. Diaz and Applegate try to be funny and outrageous but they just come off as being irritating. Selma Blair's character is the one I disliked the most, even though she wasn't in it as much as some of the others. She seemed very fickle about what she wanted her character to be like. And I found it amazing how quickly she got over her boyfriend of a year. In the last 10 minutes of the film Diaz and Blair had a quick personality change. What's that about? Suddenly they're best friends. Where's Diaz? Out getting the man of her dreams so she can join their little entourage. Like the beginning when Diaz and Applegate were both single party girls, and Blair was the outcast with a (now ex) boyfriend who had to sleep with a complete stranger to fit in. But that was about a month before, people change. I'm sick of movies that make men out to be cheating liars and women out to be desperate tarts.Now, Bateman and Thomas, I really liked the chemistry they had together. They made believable brothers. Bateman wasn't always in your face with his preaching and philosophies. He seemed like the only 'real' person there, whereas the others were all Hollywood-ish.It's more for gullible teenagers or the closure of a drinking-binge. If you like cheesy films filled with cheap laughs or watch them because they're so idiotic then it's worth a watch. Think 'Dude, Where's my car?' with Female-leads. Or 'Dumb and Dumber' with annoying actors.