Director Eli Roth should take note of and learn from this film. It is what Cabin Fever hoped to be... spooky.Two twenty-something couples are vacationing in Mexico when they are invited to witness the excavation of some ancient ruins. Instead of fun and excitement, however, the four are held captive at top of the ruins by the locals. But it isn't long before they find they may be in even greater danger. Something cunning, hungry, and green has a taste for human flesh and the four vacationers have rung the dinner bell.The characters seemed real. The mood was gripping. There were some good scares. I enjoyed it.

Scripted by Scott B. Smith based on his own novel, "The Ruins" at least has a somewhat interesting if not entirely novel premise that helps it stand apart from other modern horror films. Granted, its characters have the potential to grate on the nerves of some viewers, but their situation is a grim one indeed and compelling in its disgusting little way. It may get under your skin just as the people in the story find their bodies invaded by an insidious natural force.Two couples - Jeff (Jonathan Tucker), Amy (Jena Malone), Stacy (Laura Ramsey) and Eric (Shawn Ashmore) - are on vacation in Mexico when a new acquaintance, amiable German Mathias (Joe Anderson) convinces them to accompany him to an ancient Mayan temple that's the sight of an archaeological expedition. Once there, they're accosted by hostile locals and flee to the top of the temple where a much worse danger awaits them. As it so happens, the plants here are aggressive meat eaters - and pretty darn clever to boot.As things go from bad to worse throughout this movie, it's hard not to wince and feel a moderate amount of sympathy for what our protagonists go through, even though they get annoying at times. The special effects are quite well done, and we get to see the plants envelop our hapless quartet and force themselves down their orifices. The gore in the unrated version is very juicy as one character goes utterly crazy and mutilates herself in her attempt to remove the offending vegetation. The location shooting (actually done in Australia) is excellent and the atmosphere is therefore quite effective. The acting from all concerned is pretty good, with Anderson standing out in the most sympathetic role of the bunch.Horror fans looking for something a little different may find this to their tastes. It's played very straight, with no winking at the audience or obvious self-conscious genre references. Overall, a good effort.Seven out of 10.

I saw this movie with very low expectations. I didn't know a lot about it so I wasn't sure if it was going to be worth it.The story did an OK job of getting you curious about these ruins they travel to. The suspense continues when the Mayans show up and force them to stay at the ruins.Then the movie turns from somewhat suspenseful to pointless. The amount of gore found in this movie did not balance out compared to whether it was truly necessary or used more for shock value.The fact that they didn't make any attempt to fight the vines from hell. They had fire and didn't try to burn it nor did they try to cut it with a knife to see if they could destroy it or not. They quickly jumped into a victim role and their helpless attitude was not real. It reminded me of the old horror movies where the people just scream and yell and don't have half a brain to try to fight back.

I just screened The Ruins and didn't think much of it beforehand. I thought it looked cool, but didn't really expect anything bad or good. All in all, it was better than most movies of it's kind, and could've easily been worse, but could've been just a little bit better too.Of course, it's about a group of young people that, by chance, find their way into the old ruins of some old Mayan pyramid thing. When they get there, they're ambushed by the (Mayan?) locals, and pretty much held at the pyramid/ruins against their will. The locals won't let them leave, and stakeout the outside of the ruins with guns and arrows and all that cool stuff. So, really, what's one to do in such a freaky, crazy situation? There's not much to do other than survive, which is what these people struggle to do throughout the movie. Not only do they have to worry about surviving from hunger or dehydration (five people have only ONE bottle of water to ration, plus a a tiny bit of food), but they also have to worry about not only the crazy ass killer vines/foliage that inhabit these ruins, but they also have to worry about staying sane.Everything that can go wrong pretty much does. The worst things happen to these people. Really. I was watching and every few minutes, I just said, "Wow, that's a bitch. That sucks." Not only do they have to worry about freaky killer vines, they also have to worry about themselves, because one of them starts to go insane and one of them is seriously injured.I know what you're thinking. The whole notion of killer plants/vines sounds completely stupid. I thought so, too. How was this going to be scary or even kind of freaky? Personally, I thought they handled it pretty damn well. What could've ended up being ridiculous and stupid ended up being kind of freaky. It's not really the vines/plants themselves that are scary, it's just the idea of what they are and what they do to these people that's kind of scary. The scenes inside the pyramid, where it's just wall to wall of this scary crap, was a little creepy because they were everywhere and it was overwhelming and claustrophobic at the same time. The scenes inside the actual pyramid are scary because it's so dark and it's such a confined space that these vines actually were kind of freaky because they were pretty much wall-to-wall. It was an abyss filled with these plants, that mimicked the noises around them, making them that much more creepy.Of course, the movie's filled with blood. Lots of it. The violence is great because most of it didn't come from the vines like you'd expect; most of the crazy crap was a result of the characters; the presence of the vines just made things worse and nastier. None of the gore is there to really shock you, it's just there, it just makes you cringe instead of yell in excitement, like most movies of it's kind. There's a really nasty scene involving a guy, legs, a hunting knife, a rock, and a hot pan...and it's nasty....The only thing I was missing from the movie was that it didn't really pack much of a punch. It was just there, there wasn't that much to it. A lot of what happens is sad and effective, especially how a lot of these characters get screwed over, but I would've preferred if there was just more to it. I thought it would've been better if the movie was just an all-out downer, even though nothing really positive ever happens. The characters act like you'd expect, too. They go through every decision rationally and logically, and opt not to do things that they know will get them killed. They react just as you'd expect someone to react in a situation like this.It's a cool movie because it doesn't take the easy way out like most horror movies do. Bad things happen to characters that you like, even though you kind of hate to see it, because all these characters are pretty likable and interesting. I thought the ending could've packed more punch, because it ended up being too bland for my taste, but that's just me. Even though some unexpected stuff happens, it still could've used some more punch. But eh. Who cares?This was a pretty cool movie. Could've been a little better, but could've ended up a lot worse, too. Pretty damn entertaining, and some pretty crazy violence. Score: 8

Could this be the best horror film so far this year? Well when you take a look at some of the horror films we see today like "The Eye", "Prom Night", "Shutter", and "One Missed Call", it damn well could be. Because lets face it; those movies I just listed flat-out sucked and I didn't even have to see them to find out for myself. However, this movie on the other hand delivers a couple of scares and some intensely disturbing images that will make you look the other way.The film focuses on four college students who are on a vacation in Mexico and then suddenly they meet a stranger who invites them to a place that is not even on the map, (So far there is already a typical horror cliché). Anyway, they go to a sight where an ancient Mayan Temple stands, hopping to find the stranger's brother who was missing somewhere among the ruins. Afterwards bizarre events begin to happen and the only thing left for these unsuspected individuals is to survive.In my opinion, this film is good for its genre. It does follow some patterns on how to make a successful horror movie. The acting is decent and the characters do a nice job holding it together, rather than just falling apart all at once. Now I don't know how accurate this is to the book because I never read it but I'm sure the book is just as graphic as the movie, maybe worse. So to rap it up, if your looking to avoid a bad remake of an original horror piece or some Japanese film turned upside down, give this film a shot. It's not the best horror film I've seen, but its worth the rent.