Eddie Murphy does a superb job playing multiple characters in this movie, especially in the lead role of Sherman Klump, a good-hearted obese university teacher, who is tired of people making fun of his weight. Hoping to win the affection of a colleague, Dr. Carla Purty (Jada Pinkett), Sherman will test a miraculous, but risky experimental, weight-loss pharmaceutical formula on himself. However, the results of experiment are not what, he wanted, as a dangerous obnoxious alter ego named 'Buddy Love' is trying to destroy Sherman, once and for all. Without spoiling the movie, too much, I have to say, as much as I like the original 1963 Jerry Lewis's film of the same name, for its odd sense of humor in the way, it parodies author Robert Louis Stevenson's novel, 'Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde'. I just thought, 1996's 'The Nutty Professor' is a little more focus on the keeping the same type of a humor. In my opinion, the original was a little uneven with its jokes. It introduce some short jokes, yet, never expand on it. For the most part, the movie humor was all over the place, ranging from childish somewhat dumb slapstick to too avart-garde to understand. Because of that, many of the jokes, fall flat. The remake at least, kept the humor nearly everything in tone, even if the scenes with the professor's extended family weren't really needed. Because of this, the jokes in the 1996 version were better told. I understood, what the dream sequences, funny music montages, and hilarious outtakes were trying to go for. Not only that, but in a world of awful comedy remakes, 'The Nutty Professor' also stands out as a film to watch when you want a good laugh even if some of the jokes were somewhat offensive, gross and crude. For the most part, the fat jokes and toilet humor kinda do hit the funny bone for me. I'm not the best of shapes, myself, however, I'm willing to take a few jabs about my waistline, as long as the movie has a good message. This movie does. There is some heart to this film. I truly understand, why the likable professor wants to transform. I can't say, the same with Jerry Lewis's clumsy character in the original. All, I got from that movie is the fact that the somewhat annoying Professor wanted to boned his much younger, student; which is creepy. His drive for the change, really lacks depth. Another thing that bugs me, is how generic and tiresome, Jerry's nerd character is, as he used it, in a similar role in 1958's film 'Rock-A-Bye Baby'. Even his Buddy Love character doesn't seem new, as it clearly parodying his once-upon Rat Pack buddy, singer, Dean Martin. Plus, for a sci-fi formula plot that supposed to beef up the main character. Jerry Lewis's body doesn't really look any differ, as Buddy Love. Don't get me wrong, this remake also has its problems with the transforming like how does Sherman's body fat vanishes, yet his skin somehow shrinking to fit in, with his new body type, but at least, his Buddy Love seems like a new guy and the antagonist. This film really explore the conflict within man vs self. It was something that was missing from the first movie. Because of that, Sherman's speech toward the end, honestly does mean something, while the Lewis version kinda doesn't, as moments later, the film contradict those statements, when his girlfriend sneaks a few bottles, before their honeymoon. Because of that, the speech in the first movie toward the end doesn't seem so meaningful. This 1996 remake deserves more credit than it been getting. Some people had been dumping on it, for years. Even original producer like Jerry Lewis, abandoned it by 2009. Regardless, of what Lewis and other critics, thought. In my opinion, it's as good as the original, because of the amazing make-up magic and special visual effects at the time. The supporting cast in the new movie is also a lot better. I found Dave Chappelle's brief cameo as the bully comedian, Reggie Warrington and Larry Miller's character of Dean Richmond, to be just as funny, even if it's a bit mean-spirited. However, Jada Pinkett is a bit weak in the role. She really doesn't stand out at all. Regardless of that, the good hearted emotional music by composer, David Newman makes up for the lack of chemistry between Murphy and Pinkett. No really, give a listen to track 2 of Newman's original instrumental score. You will make you feel something. Overall: While, this movie is a bit raucous and crude, it did create some laughs, heart and poignancy than any Eddie Murphy movie has in quite in a long time. It was a Herculean task, but somehow, director, Tony Shadyac and his crew, succeed at it.

Eddie Murphy transforms himself with the help of the Oscar winning make-up team into an array of characters known as the Klump family, Buddy Love, and Dr. Sherman Klump, an overweight lonely professor. He becomes Buddy Love when Sherman develops a formula to thin him down but the formula does not last as long as he would like it too. It's not permanent. He becomes a full-fledged Buddy Love, the man who is thin and goes after the ladies unlike never before. The scenes with Dave Chappelle as the comedian who pokes fun and cruelty at the overweight Sherman is quite sad. Murphy delivers in his role and many roles on screen. As Dr. Sherman Klump, you like him the best because he is the kindest and sweeter than Buddy Love who only thinks about himself. As the Klump family, Murphy proves that there is nothing he can't or won't do to get a laugh at the audience. But enough with the fart jokes around the dining room table, the movie also includes James Coburn and Jada Pinket Smith as the woman of Sherman's desire who goes after Buddy but she does not realize he's the same person. It isn't the acting but the make-up that shows how Sherman to Buddy transformation can be.

Well, um, I'm not sure what to say about "The Nutty Professor". I have heard a few parodies on this movie and some have said this is a decent comedy. But for the most part, this movie broke my heart because I used to be over weight and recently dropped all the pounds, so I felt for Sherman. But I felt that the movie really over did it on the fat jokes because I know some people that exercise and do whatever they can to loose weight and it's almost impossible. So I felt that in some ways this movie was cruel and unrealistic. But it had a very sweet side and it had it's occasional jokes that could get a little laugh. So, I'd recommend over all, but then again, if you are very touchy on weight jokes, you might want to skip.5/10

My Age: 13Professor Sherman Klump, played by Eddie Murphy, is an overweight teacher who falls in love with a new teacher at his school, Carla Purty, played by Jada Pinkett.  He wants to lose weight fast and begins testing his DNA restructuring medicines (to lose weight) on himself.  The new product: Buddy Love, played by Eddie Murphy.  Unlike Sherman, Buddy has a sex life, and he goes out with Carla also.  There is also someone on campus trying to make big money with Sherman's potion, but he is more impressed by Buddy, who he thinks is behind all the real work.The Nutty Professor is quite a funny film, with a lovable and good character in Professor Sherman Klump, but it also has a character who you like at first, but then there's too much of him, and his quick tauntings get annoying and irritating.  That character is Buddy Love.  However, this character does not stop The Nutty Professor from being a good film.  I enjoyed the conversations at the Klump family's dinner table and the whole idea of the miracle potion.  The romance in this film is also better than expected, and I loved how Eddie Murphy played almost his entire family.  The make up and effects done to make Eddie Murphy into a fat, overweight man like Sherman are also very good.  Overall, the only annoying thing in the film is Buddy Love.Australian Classification: M 15+: Sexual ReferencesRating: 66 out of 100

Why would anyone waste time and money to produce a movie like this-----anything bad you can say about a movie production you can say about this looser. I tried to watch but each additional minute I did was more embarrassing and excruciating than the previous one. A few reasonable descriptors would be as follows: inappropriate, ridiculous, sick, obnoxious, terrible, silly, stupid, insulting---just to name a few. I shan't go on with this review except to say that Eddie Murphy has a talent: too bad none of that gift is in evidence here. I give this gutter-rat film a 1.0.

Special effects have come a long way since 1963, but they are needlessly overused in the 1996 version of The Nutty Professor. Eddie Murphy changes size and appearance so drastically and so often that we could call him Eddie Morphy. He is terrific playing any number of characters, but all the technical fireworks eventually grow distracting and get in his way.
Sherman Klump is a shy 400-pound university prof, an expert in body chemistry. He has developed a magic weight loss formula in the lab and decides to become his own human guinea pig. Zap! Fat Sherman is transformed into the trim, foul-mouthed womanizer Buddy Love. Now his dreams can come true, right? Well, not quite. Pretty Carla Purty, the object of his affection, isn't exactly in love with Love. There are some genuine belly laughs here as Sherman blows up and down, though one fart joke goes a long way. Twenty fart jokes seem to go on forever. Murphy creates a wonderful character in Sherman, and we feel his pain and embarrassment. This emotional involvement gives The Nutty Professor unexpected depth and shows what Murphy can do when given the opportunity.

Eddie Murphy is not funny anymore. And in this comedy-version of dr Jekyll and mr Hyde, Murphy plays almost every role in the film, thus effectively preventing someone else from rescuing this horrible movie.Is that a computer-animated waistline the fat guy has? If so, it's the least credible animation ever.Sucky, sucky, sucky...