THE NIGHTMARE BEFORE CHRISTMAS / (1993) ***1/2Starring the voices of: Danny Elfman, Chris Sarandon, Catherine O'Hara, Ken Page, Ed Ivory, and William Hickey Directed by Henry Celiac. Written by Michael McDowell. Running time: 76 minutes. Rated PG (for horrific images and some animated violence).	Tim Burton seems like the only being on the planet who could come with characters such as the ones found in "The Nightmare Before Christmas." The feature is literally a tale likely to be found in a child's dreams. It creates a world of its own, inhabiting unforgettable characters and events that should be shared with generations. This film is a visual masterpiece; a movie that deserves to be a holiday favorite for some time to come.
	The atmosphere director Henry Celiac captures in "The Nightmare Before Christmas" is truly breathtaking. The cities and setting in which these characters live are visually perplexing, yet descriptive and develop the production's mood perfectly. We, as audiences starving for originality and imagination, are able to enter a scope so believable and unrelentingly convincing we lust for every last minute of it.The movie's protagonist is Jack Skellington, the pumpkin king of the holiday town of Halloween. Jack is the role model for much of the cities population. The only problem is that Jack has been around for ages, parked in a town where every single year builds up for a conventional holiday, Halloween. This character has grown depressed and saddened by the routine living style he inhabits. We learn of his passion for new events and a and new life through a musical number that is both effective and engaging.Later on that vary night, Jack wonders off into a nearby woods and stumbles upon an area surrounded with magical doors leading to specific holiday worlds. Jack, blooming with curiosity, enters Christmas town: a joyful, happy place with snow, glitter, children singing, and colorful lights decorating the village in its entirety. Jack is mystified by the glamorous atmosphere, and rushes home to tell the Town of Halloween about his adventures.	We realize the internalconflict is Jack's boredom of routine. This becomes more complex when he tries to figure out the meaning of Christmas. The external problem comes later in the plot, where we predict an uneasy disaster upcoming due to his intentions of recreating Christmas in Halloween style.Other key characters are Sally, the puppet-like creation of an angry professor, the city's Mayor who has a head for both his good and bad personality, the Oggie Boogie, the film's villain who is everything we ever dreamed of regarding a diabolical animated bad guy, and the inevitable character of Santa Clause."The Nightmare Before Christmas" is not necessarily a children's movie, it might be too strange or fanatical for the very young. It is certainly a musical production, and at times, I felt that the songs replaced essential development. However, the musical numbers are challenging and memorable, containing passion and emotion. The picture is a walk into the mind of some of the most wildly imaginative filmmakers of our time. "The Nightmare Before Christmas" is titled wonderfully, although the film is truly not a nightmare, but a dream--a dream brought to life on the big screen.  
Brought to you by Touchstone Pictures.

This is certainly a pleasant surprise. Tim Burton, purveyor of the wacko, has created, along with his amazing team, a real classic work. Seldom does a film bank on so much originality, from the incredible creation of Halloween Town, with its denizens, marvelous in their diversity and variety, to a really interesting plot. The character of Jack Skellington is a scene-stealer. Considering he pretty much a stick with a round, skeletal head, he has amazing expression and energy. He is an artist and a rebel, dissatisfied with the continuing shortsightedness of his frightening peers. When his world opens up through an accidental fall into another town, paralleling his own, he tries to bring Christmas back with him. The problem is that he really doesn't understand the concept well enough. He mixes his own social foundation with an alien one and the results are hilarious. Wonderful to look at with some of the finest animation you will ever see, each moment carefully scripted and produced.

Who would ever think that a musical about the overlap between Halloween and Christmas would work? However, it does work with the songs not exactly being Christmas - or Halloween - classics, but fitting the dark mood of this film perfectly.The movie opens with Jack Skellington, AKA the Pumpkin King, facing an identity crisis of sorts. Halloween has just ended in his hometown of Halloween Town, and he has been receiving kudos from everyone in town for making this year's Halloween the scariest ever. But Jack is seeking purpose in his life, and scaring people to death once a year just isn't doing it for him anymore. He takes a walk in the woods and he discovers a group of trees each with doors and different symbols on each door. He opens the door with the tree symbol on it, and finds himself in Christmas Town. While there, he is fascinated by the contrast of Christmas Town with his own world. Jack returns home, along with a sampling of trinkets from Christmas Town, to contemplate the meaning of what he has found there. Ultimately he decides that this year, Halloween Town is going to take charge of Christmas. Jack has also decided that he will replace "Sandy Claws" on his yearly sleigh ride, delivering presents to all of the children of the world. All of the citizens of Halloween Town are enthused by the idea except Sally, a creation of Halloween Town's mad scientist, who coincidentally is also looking for something new in her life. She alone sees the danger of Halloween Town hijacking the Christmas holiday.While the Grinch tried to destroy Christmas and came away with a true understanding of the meaning of the holiday, Jack Skellington, with the best of intentions, is on the road to ruin Christmas. In preparation for the big event, he enlists the townspeople to help make toys, and they just can't get the hang of making or doing anything that is not designed to terrify. In fact, when Jack makes his Christmas ride and the town hears on the radio of the terror Jack is causing, they actually see this as a sign of success. To them, horror equals happiness.Like most good films designed for all age groups, the movie is actually weaving a tale on two levels. The story itself is very straightforward so that children can easily follow it. On a second level, there is deft humor and one-liners that are obviously aimed at adults, such as the mayor's plea to Jack -"I'm only an elected official here! I can't make decisions!" Or when the scientist who created Sally gets tired of her running away and builds a new creation to replace her. This one turns out to be just a female version of the mad scientist himself to which he has endowed half of his own brain. His conclusion is "You will be a decided improvement over that treacherous Sally. We'll have conversations worth having." You'll see quite a bit of similarity between the style of art design here and that done in some of Tim Burton's other films, such as "Beetlejuice". You'll also probably recognize Danny Elfman's style of score that has come to decorate so many of Burton's other films. I highly recommend this film as great entertainment for the whole family.

Nightmare Before Christmas is such a classic movie that will always hold a special place in my heart, even if the new emo generation is claiming hold of it, they do realize that this film was made years before, right? Moving on, this is one of my favorite movies of all time, it's a wonderful and charming movie that is original, funny, and moving. I think the reason this movie still stands the test of time is because this was a personal treasure of Tim Burton's. You can tell the love that was put into this film, it's incredible the way that it was made and the soundtrack is one of the best albums of all time. All the characters are lovable and a pleasure to watch as they bring this dark comedic tale to life.Halloween Town is a dream world filled with citizens such as deformed monsters, ghosts, ghouls, goblins, vampires, werewolves, and witches. Jack Skellington leads them in a frightful celebration every Halloween, but he has grown tired of the same routine year after year. Wandering in the forest outside the town center, he accidentally opens a portal to "Christmas Town". Impressed by the feeling and style of Christmas, Jack presents his findings and his understanding of the holiday to the Halloween Town residents. They fail to grasp his meaning and compare everything he says to their idea of Halloween. He reluctantly decides to play along and announces that they will take over Christmas. Every resident is assigned a task, while Sally, a rag doll woman who is created by the town's mad scientist, begins to feel a romantic attraction towards Jack. However, she alone fears that his plans will become disastrous. Christmas Eve he begins to deliver presents to children around the world, but the gifts: shrunken heads, Christmas tree-eating snakes, only terrify the recipients. Realizing what damage he did Jack attempts to fix what he has done, but has to make sure to make Santa safe and happy again.People who do not enjoy this movie, I don't understand how you could not honestly. It's such a charming movie and very unforgettable, I was 10 years old when I first saw this in the theater in 1995, I still watch it every year for Halloween and even Christmas. My sister and I are grown women, but if I slip in the soundtrack, we become kids again and start singing to The Boogey Song. I do admit that Spencer's Gifts and Hot Topic have over blown on the Nightmare Before Christmas memorabilia, but everyone wants something from this movie because it's just that memorable and you can't help but fall in love with it. It's positively magical, Jack Skeleton is awesome and can steal any holiday any time, I loved his ideas personally, Easter is next! 10/10

Tim Burton's Nightmare Before Christmas is a visually spectacular tour de force of Gothic styles and themes, bound around a simple children's tale. The story follows Jack Skellington, the king of Halloween Town, who one day while walking in the woods stumbles upon Christmas Town; a town where, you guessed it, every day is Christmas. Jack doesn't quite understand the concept of a celebration where nobody is frightened or killed, but he decides to have the celebration in his town regardless. While plotting, he also decides to kidnap Santa and deliver Christmas Town's gifts himself this year...much to the dismay of the local children, who aren't too pleased about receiving the gifts that a skeleton from Halloween Town brings them...This movie was actually directed by Henry Sellick, but it is obviously Tim Burton's film. His style is rampant throughout the film, and it is clear that this could only have come from his mind. The animation on display here is magnificent; the style is very unique and it blends very well with the Gothic theme. Where the film falls down, however, is on the story side and, more notably, the delivery of the story. The story is very linear; I understand that this film is predominantly aimed at children, but even children's films can be more expansive than this; the film also really should be more expansive as Tim Burton has created a whole world with many unique and interesting characters, yet only a handful are allowed to shine. Burton (and his composer, Elfman) seem far too keen to pack the movie with songs. I have no problem with this, but the songs here are really rather dull. The majority of them have little more than one or two lines that are sung over and over and considering that the film is packed with these songs; it gets old fast and more dialogue would have worked better.Overall, Nightmare Before Christmas is a nice film. The animation and style are amazing and it has lots of nice moments; but it is let down by a thin story and poor delivery. Horror fans will have fun spotting the tributes, and I don't doubt that many children will love this film, as will many adults; but it could and really should have been a lot better, and I have to say that it left me cold.

This film, while far from Burton's masterpiece, is a delightful musical that in the end shows that, sometimes, we have things far better than we think we do and the other side of the fence sometimes looks better just because it's different, but that doesn't make necessarily wise to pursue someone else's dream because we mistakenly think we may like it more.  Tim Burton's fingerprints are all over this film.  Excellent casting of vocal talent, the score is great and the animation is marvelous.  A very good film and worth watching more than once.  Recommended.

I think a lot of the enjoyment of this movie comes down to what you think of the animation. Watching it now versus watching it in 1993 makes a big difference. I wasn't a huge fan of the animation, making it harder to get into the story. And I found the story a little lacking. Was Jack Skellington trying to ruin Christmas or did he really enjoy it and just accidentally mess it up? I think the script could have used a little work. That said, I did enjoy the music, and have been singing "What's this? What's this?" for the last day. Is this is Christmas movie or a Halloween movie? I can see both sides of the debate.

This movie has always been a favorite of mine. I never like holiday movies, because i always find them to be full to bursting with slapstick comedy, or way too sugary-sweet and dramatic. both of these things are okay in moderation, but most Christmas movies seem to go to one side of the spectrum or the other. this wonderful fairy tale is perfect for someone like me, who likes a little bit of a darker movie, but expects a Christmas movie to have a good message. the darkness in the movie is not without cause-it shows the joy of Christmas in great contrast to the scariness of Halloween, and it made me love both holidays all the more for that reason. i don't know, maybe that's just because Halloween and Christmas are my favorite holidays, but i really feel that this movie is great for older children and adults. younger children (up to 5 or 6 years) may find this simply frightening, but older children would find it wonderful.

Thank God for stop-motion animation and the creative genius that is Tim Burton because any other technique would have diminished its surrealistic landscape. But, however kid-friendly THE NIGHTMARE BEFORE Christmas appears, this is a somewhat disturbing tale that children under the age of ten may not like because of some of its subject matter, specifically a scene in which Santa Claus gets tortured by the Boogeyman and children have a frightening experience with Christmas presents that turn deadly.Relying heavily on HOW THE GRINCH STOLE Christmas, the story tells of how Jack Skellington, the Pumpkin King of Halloweentown is in a rut because every Halloween is the same old thing. By accident he stumbles onto what seems to be a portal embedded unto a tree which lands him in magical Christmastown -- a place which enchants him, a place where "Sandy Claws" is revered as its gift-giver. Here he gets an epiphany of an idea: he decides that he wants to celebrate Christmas the Halloween way, all in good spirit, and decides to kidnap Santa Claus, but Sally, the rag doll who loves him, has a strong feeling that this will not turn out well and must find a way to stop him, particularly when Oogie Boogie, the Boogeyman, enters the scene with nasty intentions.This is, quite simply, a beautiful film despite its dark and borderline disturbing tone which arrive late into the story once Jack Skellington decides to go on his frightful crusade to bring Halloween into Christmas unto an unsuspecting world. However, the film is really in good cheer and even a ghoul as mean as Oogie Boogie proves to be quite harmless. I do believe, though, this is a film to be watched closely and with a child spirit in order to appreciate its technical wizardry: Jack Skellington's eyes say it all: when has a skeleton looked so childlike and full of wonder? And who but a child could create the havoc stemming from a prank instead from meanness? Like I said -- this is a stunning film, and one the family can view on not one but two holiday seasons. If you like your Christmas a little iconoclastic and retch at the thought of singing another Christmas carol, this is the film for you.

I was five years old when I saw this movie and after that the words Tim Burton rang in my ears as one of Hollywood's most eccentric directors. Whenever I hear that a Tim Burton film is coming out I think of The Nightmare Before Christmas and how wonderful it is. The story is very original, the scenery is wonderfully Gothic and the characters and animation is to scream for. Another thing about this film are the songs. They're so twisted and funny that I can't help but hum, whistle or just sing them word by word and musical note by musical note. So in conclusion, The Nightmare Before Christmas is what you would get if you were to put the minds of Edgar Allen Poe and Dr. Seuss in a blender. You get a beautifully dark and wildly bizarre film about Santa Claus, dancing skeletons and what goes bump in the night.

Right, I've seen all these other teenagers wandering around, wearing hoodies with Jack's face on, all crying out "OMG the nitemare be4 Xmas is soooooooo awesome", so I decided to see it for myself. I wanted to know what the fuss was about. I mean, if loads of people like something, it's got to be good, right? .....Right? Less than 3 minutes into the film, I was sitting there thinking "So...People think this is the best animated film ever?" I was struck instantly by the animation. It's dire. So amateurish. I've seen cartoons done by first-year animation students and they are sensational compared to the animation in this film. The animation is 'sticky', usually far too slow (especially with 'shock' reactions), and it's just... argh. It bugged me so much. I'm sure there are going to be people who either think "What are you talking about?" (to them I say: Watch it again and bear this in mind) or "Oh, don't be mean. Stop-motion is very hard and they must be applauded for their efforts" (to them I say: No it's not. I've got loads of experience with stop-motion. It's simple if you know what you're doing). Sure, the models are fine, no, the models are great, it's just that they didn't do a very good job of giving them 'life'.Now I shall discuss my views of the plot. I must admit, I didn't pay as much attention to the film as many fans would have, but there was something that confused me greatly (among other things, but this one just plain annoys me). Sally is, effectually, the doctor's slave, and is never allowed to be away from the doctor (and is often locked up) so she doesn't get a good taste of the 'outside world', and yet she evidently had managed to develop a good friendship with Jack before the film's setting.Wait, what? Is that just bad script-writing, or am I simply not seeing the apparent obvious? I don't quite understand how someone can be emotionally separated from the rest of the community, yet manage to maintain a friendship with one of its members.Other than that *ahem* possible inconsistency, the idea of the plot is very good. It is very imaginative. I don't have any problems with it. This film, as we all know, is also a musical. Now, normally with musicals I sit there thinking "Oh God, there's another song coming up", but with this film, I found the songs tolerable; they became part of the film and, quite simply, the film almost survives on these songs. As for the voice acting, that was also very good, and the actors must be praised for making a decent job of it.In conclusion, good story, maybe, but great cartoon? I don't think so. There's certainly nothing about it to make me feel like going around saying it's the best cartoon/animated film ever. There are dozens of things I can think of which would have made this film better, and admittedly I find it such a shame that my opinions of the film have been made so negative by this fact.

Artistically speaking, this is a beautiful film with incredible stop motion camera-work AND a really stylish atmosphere. The characters are really captivating and just plain "cool". Halloween Town is also a visual delight. In almost every way I consider this a wonderful film. However, for people like me who are not particularly enamored with musicals, the music is definitely the low-point. It's not that the songs are bad, but that there are so many of them. The dialog is mostly sung and I found it detracted, slightly, from my viewing experience. However, considering that almost all the high school students I teach LOVE this movie, I certainly seem to have the minority opinion. So, for those who are not into musicals, still watch it--you'll enjoy it. But, like me you may also wish they'd done a few less numbers! PS--On the DVD, you also get FRANKENWEENIE (a half hour short) and VINCENT (also a short and the seeming inspiration for NBC). They make this a MUST-HAVE DVD.

First, I want to say that "The Nightmare Before Christmas" is a very neat idea for a movie. If it comes from Tim Burton (although he just produces, not directs), then it's pretty much guaranteed that there's something cool in store. The idea of a land where there's only Halloween having Christmas one year while forcing Halloween on a land where there's only Christmas...a really cool concept. And it's worth seeing what the movie shows happening.Now for the unfortunate aspect. The excessive number of songs weakens the movie. I don't mind a song or two - or more in a Beatles movie - but it's just sort of hokey to have a song every five minutes in a movie that supposed to be macabre.So, if you see "TNBC", you can appreciate the concept, but you just might get put off by the musical aspect. Featuring the voices of Danny Elfman, Chris Sarandon, Catherine O'Hara and Paul Reubens.So what did Santa bring YOU for Christmas?

People only give this high reviews because they're blinded by nostalgia. Me, having only watched this movie recently, actually see the problems in this movie that everyone else here is blind to. This movie wasn't terrible - the music and animation were very good - but what this movie lacks is any kind of importance in anything. Sally had basically no character, but the movie acts like she's important. Sally's relationship with the main character Jack Skellington was also completely forced. They had absolutely no chemistry with each other, the only time they even talked with each other was when Sally was warning Jack about how his desire to become Santa Claus was a bad idea. And speaking of him wanting to be Santa, that's the plot of the movie. But barely any of the movie even follows this plot, it just wanders off into these musicals and scenes of Sally doing meaningless things. Overall, 3/10 - only because of the animation and music.