So I guess with any film review - it's all about the answers to the important questions. So let's get them out of the way first shall we?Q) Is the plot descent, with a substantial storyline including dramatic arcs, twists and/or turns?A) Not particularly.Q) Are there character arcs and meaningful character developments?A) A little.Q) Is there romance?A) Next question, please.Q) Is the overall film original?A) Not at all.Q) Is it a likely Oscar nomination contender?A) Hell no!Q) Is it still awesome?A) HELL YES!!!!!Critics should be banned from reviewing films such as these. Anyone with half a brain can tell exactly what kind of film this is and what they're in for purely by the film's trailer alone.This is a film made for action movie fans and not just regular action movies - I mean REAL action films in the style of the classic 80's action movies where plot and substantial character developments and dialogue took a backseat to intense over-the-top violence, explosions, car chases, sex scenes and catchy, memorable one liners!The 80's action hero (and villain) breed was a rare phenomenon which will likely die with those very actors who gave them life. No 90's or new millennium "action" movie star will ever come close to being anywhere near as genuinely tough and just plain bad-arse as their 80's predecessor's! Even now with the main 'Expendables' cast pushing 60 +, you know that they would snap Matt Damon's spine in 2 with one hand tied behind their backs!The 'Expendables' cast consists of Sly Stallone as the fearless leader of the team, Jason (Basketball stabber) Statham as the trusty knife-throwing sidekick, Dolph Lundgren as the treacherous giant one, Jet-Li as the small one, Terry Chews as Wesley Snipes, Mickey Rourke as the tattoo/previous knife-throwing sidekick and Randy Couter as the "who the hell is this guy, oh he's a UFC fighter" guy.I still can't believe the unbelievable shape these guys are in! They're giants (exception for Jet-li of course).Still, despite it's 80's throw-back appeal - the film isn't all action. Believe it or not there are slow parts. Mostly unnecessary filler between the action scenes. However the third act of the film makes up for the lack of action and then some!It's when this third act commences when the true action film we've been waiting to see kicks in and steps up several notches to become the manliest most testosterone-fueled film since the last 'Rambo'!It's funny, it's loud, it's un-relentlessly violent, an action-packed no-brainer of a film! An 80's action movie fan's wet-dream!!!Bring on the sequel/s and bring on Jean-Claude Van Damme so he can give Statham the butt-kicking he so desperately deserves!!!

A team of elite mercenaries, the Expendables, leaded by Barney Ross head to South America on a mission to overthrow a dictator of a small South American island. Barney and Lee, a knife enthusiast, meet the rebel Sandra and discover what is really happening behind the conflict in the city. Sandra is revealed to be the dictator's daughter, and during an ambush, they need to scape and let Sandra behind. But Ross cannot let Sandra there, and to make peace with his conscience, he and his team decide to go back to the Island.'The Expendables' is not a great masterpiece of the action movies but is not a terrible movie either; to be honest, as many users here already wrote, the movie is very ' so so'. I could say the movie is 'satisfying', if I need to use a word. Being honest, I was hoping for more, specially because all of the propaganda saying it would be the 'Greatest Action Film Ever', and also with the reunion of great names like Bruce Wilis,Schwarzenegger, Jet Li,Dolph Lundgren,etc. One of the most disappointing things in my opinion, was the fact that Arnold and Bruce were on the screen only to do a cameo appearance. A very funny cameo appearance, but still a cameo appearance. I thought Arnold and Bruce would be kicking asses with everybody, but in fact the movie centers around Stallone, Lundgren, and Statham's characters practically.There are some cool explosions and some nice fighting scenes, for sure, but the plot is weak and cliché, and no matter how many bombs they can explode, an ordinary plot doesn't make a movie something incredible. To make a small summary of what I am talking about: The movie is worthwhile because of the reunion of great legends of the action movies, but are better action films out there for sure. I would say for people to watch this movie, but with few expectations.

Going into this film, I had some rather low expectations, but was hoping to see just a violent shoot-'em-up with an all-star action film cast. I was actually pleasantly surprised as to how entertaining this film is.First of all, the cast is great, even though as a rule I tend to stray away from casts that feature a lot of big names. The film was well cast, and acted pretty well, too. The only problem is, I think there was just not enough room for all of these names to have their time on screen. However, they all work well together; so, it sort of balances out.Second, it certainly is not without action. There is plenty of violence and dismemberment to wet the beaks of the most action-hungry movie goers, but it is not totally over the top. It definitely is a film that, if they were still reviewing films together, Siskel and Ebert would criticize for being too noisy, but if you go into a film like this without even the slightest expectations that you are going to be bombarded with in your face noise and action, then you have some serious problems. The film also sort of brings up some current or recent affairs (Somali pirates was the one that stood out the most for me), and takes the "let's kick some ass" route with them, but at the same time it still has a moral code to it as well.Finally, I just like going into a film like this one, considering the times we are in with all the gray matter and things not being cut and dry, and having all of that just pushed to the side: you have your good guys and you have your bad guys. Yes, this film has a touch of its own gray matter, but it's not overwhelming. The timing of this film's release has made this point a positive one, instead of a negative one.A film as fun as this one was is not without its flaws.First of all, the writing just left a lot to be desired, but the action and comedy in it more than made up for that. That being said, do not be surprised if you find yourself wincing now and then at some very cheesy lines.Second, as I mentioned, this film is very crowded with big stars. In many cases, you like the idea of all of these big names in one film, but how can you have room for all of them?Third, there was too much CG blood and violence. Computer effects are great, but it was utilized way too much, as if it was a crutch—especially for violence. To boot, you can clearly tell that it's CG as well. If there had been more makeup effects and down and dirty special effects used like in the old days for things like decapitations or someone catching fire, I would have been much more impressed. As it is, though, the CG effects in this film are kind of cheesy and can easily be spotted. A good CG effect is one that you at least have to do a double take to see that it is in fact a CG effect or, best case scenario, have to find out later on that it is a CG effect (case and point, the digital removal of Ralph Fiennes nose when he played Lord Voldemort in the Harry Potter films looks very much like a well-done make-up effect but is in fact a CG effect).All in all, this film is good for when you just need a movie to entertain you. It's a great way for even one of the most critical moviegoers, like myself, to just sit back and enjoy a film for what it is as opposed to trying to find a deeper meaning. It's a guilty pleasure, and it is well- done in that respect. I applaud Sly for making this very entertaining film. But, just as a precaution, I wouldn't recommend this as a date movie, unless she's really into some good solid hardcore action films.

I am always more than happy to see Stallone coming out and do movies like this, Rambo 4, and the expendables are the reason why actions films are worth watching. Pure action, fun and entertainment, in my opinion far better than those modern day sissy films with pretentiously complex plot and so-called "in-depth" storyline.The Expendables has star cast characters, mainly action film stars who by modern day standards are "wash-outs". I love that Stallone is bringing together these actors to show people what true action movie is supposed to be like!Screw the so called "movie critics", they are just a bunch of pretentious fakes who won't criticize the pointless violence in "no country for old man", calling that "artistic" and "in-depth", but willing to spat on "heoric violence" in films such as the expendables, which in my opinion, has far more value than those so called "artistic violence".Nuff said, Stallone rocks! I hope he will make more films in many years to come!

The expectation for this film is obviously very high with one of the best action hero line ups (if not the best) in cinematic history. So I went into this film with a little trepidation and a lot of anticipation. I can honestly say that I was not disappointed. This was a high octane, unbelievably explosive, funny, blood thirsty, proper action movie! This film would not have been out of place in the 80s, but manages to fit into the market of today's cinematic action experience. It is easily much more graphic and gory than most modern day action films, but this adds to the film and creates a degree of realism. Let's face it; if you go around killing people it isn't going to be pretty! This film did what it needed to do, it wasn't afraid to contain blood, guts and violence for the sake of an age restriction but also wasn't overly ridiculous. After all most of the people who will watch this film grew up watching the classic action films of the 80s and 90s and are old enough for a bit of gore.The plot is not that original, but it doesn't need to be, nor was it expected to be. The cast, goes without saying, was fantastic. What could have been a disaster of conflicting egos ended up being a believable team of mercenaries where banter is rife and keeping each other alive is their number one priority. Stallone can give himself a big pat on the back for getting so many iconic actors onto the screen together and actually making it work. Though the much hyped cameo of two particular people was short lived, it was hilarious and I think a great moment in cinema.This was a great film that keeps you glued to your seat, constantly makes you gasp and laugh out loud and leaves you pumping with adrenaline. It was ridiculous and wonderful all at the same time, with more bullets and bombs than Rambo and more fighting than Rocky. This is a must see film for any movie buff or action hero wannabe. It is certainly not for the faint hearted, or for kids, but for any true action movie lover this is the ultimate manly film.Sylvester Stallone, NICE JOB!

"It means that if you're invited to a party, and you don't show up...it doesn't matter." For Stallone's eight (official) film as director he has signed up most of the biggest names in old school action. But as much as I like to believe he did this as a love letter to the (superior) R-rated action flicks of old, I can't help but think he did it mainly to cover his ass by appealing to a broader range of people and widen the target audience. I like Steve Austin and Randy Couture, but do they really belong in a film with the likes of Dolph, Arnie and Bruce? Story-wise, it's sort of a cross between The Dirty (half) Dozen and Delta Force 2. Which is weird since although the aforementioned Chuck Norris movie is several rungs down the ladder from The Expendables, it had a better plot and more coherent politics.Stallone's script (a writer called Dave Callam is also credited, but since Sly took the story far away from his original draft it's basically a courtesy credit) is his most superficial to date. Barely anything is explained in any detail beyond "shoot the ethnics". That's all you need to know, and certainly all you get. The bad guys are drug dealers, and all of the footsoldiers are willing to die for their paycheck. Since the US government won't officially intervene they sent "The Expendables" to do the job for them. Only I never really felt like they WERE expendable. There's no exploration of their own finite existence or their acceptance of inevitable death.For a film with six main characters a 103-minute running time is a joke. I am seriously hoping that there will be an extended blu ray since there's hardly any time to build character. You'll remember none of their names, the whole cast can just be referred to by the actor names and their reputation as action types. The only character out of all of them who has an arc is Dolph's Gunner Jensen. An arc for Stallone, Statham or Li? Forget it.The action is good, and gory and not afraid to be a hardcore R. But the Expendables are not exempt from the modern style of action editing and bombarding us with dozens of quick-fire shots per second. It's disorientating and annoying, and for a film that proclaimed to be a throwback to the good old days (when action was clear and visible) this was a bad editing choice.Stallone has the skill and intelligence to make good movies, but he aimed just a little too low when making the Expendables. I still have faith that he can deliver a superior sequel and I urge you to see this over any other junk out at the movies right now. Support the R-rated action movie, damn the PG-13 wannabes.

The Expendables definitely doesn't live up to the possibility of reuniting the greatest action stars of a generation in a single movie, mainly because it divides the screen time in bafflingly misjudged fashion; however, it's a ridiculously enjoyable action movie that brings the carnage.Overall, this cast is surprisingly lacking in star power. Stallone, Statham, Li and Lundgren are undeniable movie stars but the people they share the screen with do not match them and are not given the screen time to earn it. The most frustrating aspect is Willis and Schwarzenegger being relegated to a cameo.That being said, the majority of the film is actually a two-hander between Stallone and Statham (probably should've been more of an ensemble) and they are more than capable of commanding the screen together with their endearing charisma and an enjoyable rapport.The villains are a big disappointment here. David Zayas as a generic dictator is just straight up boring and whilst Eric Roberts' corrupt former CIA agent does fare a lot better, he's still not as fun or entertaining as a film like this deserves.Behind the camera Sylvester Stallone returns to the intense handheld camera work of Rambo to mixed results. Some of the action gets lost in the mix but it's still capable of delivering the hysterically violent delights. He also keeps it practical for the most part and only uses CG for smaller things (blood spurts and fire) but it still distracts.Brian Tyler confirms he's one of the best in the business for crafting generic action movie scores with this one. There's nothing particularly memorable here but it's suspenseful and heroic stuff that's even better when combined with this explosive action packed third act.

Thies movie brings back nostalgia of the 80's run and gun action movie, and here, its a GOOD thing! All the acting is great, and all the characters are fun and interesting. I was smiling the whole movie, the dialog is fantastic. It's like Die Hard was mixed with pulp fiction, and had a baby with Kill Bill; Its very good and fluent, almost like its all just improv, or like its real mercenaries talking. I wont give away the plot, but the action and dialog really keep it going.The cast is the best too. All characters are perfect, they all compliment each other in the best way. Jet Li, Jason Statham, and Stallone are the perfect three heroes for any movie. By the final act, the main characters are pretty well developed, with plenty of back story for them. The action choreography is some of the best I've seen in a while, all the action sequences are very fun to see and are thrilling. The movie keeps you on the edge of your seat, wondering what would happen next.Closing Comments: Its a very good movie, the perfect action film. The sound, acting, dialog, and action come together to make the best action film of 2010 so far. GO SEE IT NOW!!!

After undoubtedly helping kick-start the current fascination with bringing the 1980s back to the big screen, Sylvester Stallone has fairly successfully continued the trend with The Expendables. The film, an obvious action movie throwback, follows a group of mercenaries hired to take down a dictator in South America. But, as any action movie fan should know, there is a bit more to their plight than what the group initially expected.Seeing both The Losers and The A-Team, I was a little apprehensive about what to expect from The Expendables. On one hand, it was a similar film about a rather eclectic group of guys killing everything that stands in their way (albeit, with an added R-rating). But on the other, it was the only one that was merely inspired by other works, instead of outright based on something that had come before it. As well, there is thankfully no revenge subplot to speak of, something the former films followed each other a bit too closely on. With those ideas in mind, it is a bit hard seeing The Expendables as its own distinctive film on the outset. Each film has its own set of balls-to-the-wall action sequences, wise-ass one-liners and quips, and gigantic explosions.But what sets The Expendables apart, and what is likely its biggest selling point, is the nostalgia factor. Sure, The A-Team was about a group from a beloved TV series. But a few of its original stars merely had cameos in the film. In The Expendables, it is a wild mix of who's who of action stars. 80s stars like Stallone, Dolph Lundgren, Eric Roberts and Mickey Rourke are mixing it up with current action stars like Jason Statham and Jet Li, not to mention "athletes" like Randy Couture and Steve Austin. And for added measure, two huge action stars from the decade show up in what may be the greatest cameo appearances ever conceived. It is just a shame that the trailers and press coverage ruined what is essentially, the best scene in the entire film (to think it could have been as well hidden as the zany cameo in last year's Zombieland). This cast alone is reason enough to check the film out for the sheer enjoyment of seeing them all mixing it up on-screen.But sadly, no one outside of Stallone and Statham really gets a chance to really make something of their characters, outside of the one-dimensional archetypes that set their characters up. Li gets at least two great fighting scenes, but is otherwise to crack a few jokes and be made fun of for his Asian heritage. Roberts makes for a great villain, but gets not nearly enough time to truly feel dastardly. Lundgren gets a real dramatic sequence that could have truly made something of his character, but the performance is almost entirely relegated to happening off-screen. Rourke merely has an extended cameo, and looks like he shot all of his scenes in less than a week after wandering off the set of Iron Man 2, makeup and all. You have to expect that not everyone will get a chance to really do a lot with such a big cast list, but it felt like a bit of a copout having so many recognizable people cast in the film, only to do much too little with any of them.If there is any benefit in having such a huge cast, it is in Stallone's performance. His character is for all intents and purposes, an offshoot of John Rambo. The film plays much closer to his last outing as that legendary character than it does the other mercenary-based films from this year. But instead of being the timid introvert confusing audiences with his "depth", he is actually quite great in the leader role here. He plays off everyone well, and the added interactions allow for him to pull off a much more enjoyable performance as a result. Statham on the other hand, is the clear standout of the film, alternating between the comic relief and the genuine bad-ass of the whole film. He steers his role well (even with the needless subplot involving an ex-girlfriend played by Charisma Carpenter), and holds his own against everyone, including Stallone. He has a lot of fun in his role, and he is obviously the best thing about the film.What I really disliked was the rather horrendous looking special effects used for anything outside of stunts and fighting sequences (all of which are rather vicious, but fairly epic to watch given the fighters). The majority of explosions look horribly CG'ed, and any scene with an extended shot of fire looks like it was painted in as an afterthought. With much of the final battle taking place in and around fires and explosions, you can immediately tell how irritating this quickly became. Much the same goes for the blood, which looks like was all added in after the fact. There is nowhere near the same amount of bloodshed as in Rambo, and even less gritty realism. It just looks all too sloppy on Stallone's part, and seems rather careless. This could easily be chocked up to Stallone making the film seem closer to its 80s brethren than it should, but is still a pretty weak excuse for something that easily could have looked a lot better.The Expendables is an exciting and explosion filled action romp, but it makes clumsy mistakes that easily could have been fixed during production or even afterwards. This is a hard hitting film that hits so many marks, but falls short of a few too. It is Stallone's best work in the past few years, but it also proves that he is much stronger when acting as part of a heavily emphasized ensemble, as opposed to primarily on his own. Here's hoping we are done with mercenaries for a while.7/10.(This review also appeared on http://www.geekspeakmagazine.com).

For anyone growing up during the '80's and early '90's, the notion of having a film including all of Hollywood's most legendary action heroes seemed like little more than a pipe dream. So, when I initially heard that Sylvester Stallone was going to be putting together a movie titled The Expendables for just that purpose, I literally freaked out. But does this supposed "culmination of wishes" deliver the goods? Absolutely.One thing that I was worried about going into Expendables was that, despite how exciting the idea of having all of these guys together sounded on paper, the filmmakers wouldn't be able to give each of them the amount of screen time that they deserved. Personally, very seldom did I find this to actually be the case. Perhaps one or two members of the crew could've received a bit more time in the limelight, but on the whole, I thought that they balanced the focus considerably well, without making the whole venture feel like a cluttered mess.Say what you will about Stallone as a director, but the man knows how to handle action. Not only do these heroes of yesteryear provide the film with such a tremendous sense of nostalgia, but the action sequences, as well as the way in which they're shot, harken back to their time as well, before - and I know that I'm about to sound like a curmudgeon here - action scenes were plagued by the infamous shaky-cam. I won't go into describing how any of these sequences play out, but suffice it to say, it's some delightfully brutal stuff.Now, as far as the plot is concerned, what you read in the synopsis is Well, that's pretty much it. Sure, there are a few twists and turns along the way, but if you've watched any action hero classic, you'll see them coming from about a mile away. On top of that, I found the main villain to be pretty silly, and a good portion of the dialogue is just hysterically awful. But, admittedly, that's kind of the fun of the whole experience, as I simply looked at it as a cartoon. A very gory, decapitation-heavy cartoon, but nonetheless! Overall, I got just about everything that I could want out of a movie like The Expendables: sheer badassery. Sure, the plot is paper thin, and the scene involving a couple of cameo appearances felt just a little anticlimactic, but as far as mindless action films go, this one's tough to beat, at least compared to what else we've been given this summer.

Bunch of sweaty blokes try to out-macho each other. The heroine is tortured, then dragged through bullets, raging fires and explosions as the whole set is blown up, yet emerges unscathed with perfect hairdo. Pointless appearance by Arnold Schwarzenegger. Missed all opportunities for some decent jokes, and had to repeat an average one just in case we missed it. Unlikeable one-dimensional characters, predictable plot, no twists and not an ounce of suspense. I found nothing to like about this film, and would have walked out if I had woken up. Expendable plot, expendable dialogue, expendable characters ... I could go on interminably, like the film does.

If you aren't sure what to expect going into this think Rambo, only there are five Rambos instead of just one, and two of them know karate.If you do have high expectations going in (as I did), you will start to wonder if perhaps this movie isn't going to be what you were expecting as you watch it. The first hour gives you the two 'big' cameos, which weren't worth the hype (or any hype for that matter), and an out of place Mickey Rourke emotional moment but not much else.The real payoff comes in the last half hour or so of the movie which is a beautiful symphony of mindless violence, and more than makes up for the beginning.Overall the movie seemed a little rushed as far as the story goes and I won't be surprised to see a extended cut when this comes out on DVD but it is a solid action movie and worth the watch. And hats off to Randy Couture who actually steals the movie a little bit during the big action scene at the end.