Compared to the first one, this one is a massive dissapointment because the world while trying to expand and add new concepts, it doesnt explain them in a good way and over complicates them, while also not having a story as strong as the first film. But, the movie can still be seen, its entertaining and has really good action scenes which are the things that keep you watching it. So, despite not being as good as the first one, its still entertaining.

The Matrix Reloaded has everything you could possibly want from a summer blockbuster but it like its predecessor has a heck of a lot more and while Reloaded is not as good as the first Matrix film it sure is close to the standard of the original. I don't understand the seeming reluctance to accept this film a suitable continuation of the original film. I'll be the first one to admit that Reloaded has a few slow points and that the story line has a tendency towards the pretentious but the film is also highly intelligent and entertaining but most importantly the film gets the story from A to B with adequate and in some cases remarkable character development.Acting wise the film is in the same kind of league as the first film of the series with a few mediocre performances, a few decent performances and one or two excellent performances. Keanu Reeves plays Neo pretty much like he did in the first movie and that is not bad. His monotone voice is canceled out by his clear and well defined body language. His overall performance is very fitting for the character which, lets face it, is somewhat square and Keanu's acting fits that kind of character very well. Carrie-Anne Moss has taken a small step down. I don't blame her as much as I blame the writing. Her character, while still ass-kicking, is too dependent on Neo. I know they love each other but come on. Laurence Fishbourne shines as Morpheus. His performance is slightly more stylized than in the first film but he steals almost every scene he is in. Other semi-known actors make glorified cameos. Actors like Jada Pinkett Smith, Monica Bellucci and Lambert Wilson are great examples. Gloria Foster returns as the Oracle in her (sadly) last performance as she died during the filming. Her one brief scene is both highly interesting and well acted. As it was with the first film Hugo Weaving provides the best acting by far. Although his screen time is somewhat limited he manages to leave a lasting impression and becomes one of my favorite screen baddies of all time. His performance is for lack of a better word fantastic.Effect wise Reloaded is a feast. There is literally something to look at in every scene. The "real" world has been given a face lift to make it more interesting. The real effects, however, take place inside the matrix and just like in the first film the effects are absolutely ground breaking. Rivaling the likes of Star Wars and LotR and that is saying something. The people who think the story is pretentious and the dialog stubby will undoubtedly get their adrenaline fix in the action scenes. Some scenes had me holding my breath and gasping at how beautiful and overwhelming it all was and as much as I love the philosophical aspects of the film I can watch it for the effects themselves as well. Without spoiling anything I can say that lovers of cool fight scenes and fx are in for a hell of a treat with this one.In terms of costumes the film has really grown into its own. Especially Neo's costume in The Matrix is very cool and is a great improvement over the previous film. Morpheus' and Trinity's costumes are the same with minor changes and they still look cool. Agent Smith's costume has changed slightly in the color scheme. His suit has become a bit darker as if to signify that he is no longer an Agent of the system but a rogue agent now. Also his sunglasses have changed so that they look more rounded so they look more like Neo's sunglasses which of course implicates their connection. Many of the secondary characters have their own costumes as well mirroring their own personalities.Were the film separated itself from other action packed films is of course in the underlying philosophical and religious aspects. Once the film has been watched a few times for the effects you can begin to see some of the elements. I don't think its possible to fully translate and analyze every element of the film. Mainly because every element can be analyzed in a bunch of different ways. Without spoiling too much I can say that if you look hard enough you will be able to find Plato, Baudrillard, Gnosticism, Buddhism, Hinduism, Christian elements and some more. The people who tell matrix lovers to get a life for searching the Matrix for a deeper meaning ought to open their eyes and watch the film one more time. With that I'm not saying that you can't be intelligent if you don't like the Matrix I am simply asking you to give it another chance. You really won't regret it.The Matrix Reloaded is an excellent film and it deserves a lot more respect than it is getting and it is definitely underrated. I don't expect people to agree but I do expect people to respect those who love the Matrix sequels like me. I for one think that its hard to go wrong with Reloaded as it is funny, moving, awe-inspiring and very intelligent. I highly recommend this film to anyone.9/10

'Matrix Reloaded' wants too much and wants to go one better on everything. What was the non plus ultra in the first part is now playschool. Agent Smith becomes an entire army, one guard becomes a quarter of a million.The same goes for the special effects. I don't need to see something in slow motion every 5 minutes just to make it look cool. Quantity instead of quality seems to be the motto here. Used purposefully, this is definitely a suitable stylistic device. Unfortunately, it is used randomly.Basically, the movie digresses into inanities, especially in the early stages. I'm thinking of this several-minute rave in Zion, for example. The movie wants to give insights into the everyday life of people living in reality. This is basically the logical next step, but unfortunately 'Matrix Reloaded' doesn't manage to relate to the people at any time. Everything seems sterile and unapproachable.In the first part, fight sequences were used quite purposefully. Every fight had its meaning. Here, I have the feeling that the fights are pure show interludes.'Matrix' didn't just stand out because of the action, but also brought a philosophical approach into play. Unfortunately, this approach is almost completely thrown overboard in the sequel. That's a shame, because it's a feature that can set it apart from the normal action genre.The point that really bothers me the most is the transformation of Neo into a kind of Superman. He can do anything and seems almost invincible. I generally find these types of characters difficult, because it's hard to identify with them.Finally, one plus point of the movie. The scenes on the freeway were really good. I would have liked to see this kind of staging for the rest of the movie as well.In summary, 'Matrix Reloaded' falls far short of following in the big footsteps of its predecessor. More should have been made of the strengths and special features of the first part.

The Matrix Reloaded (2003) is the greatest action movie of all time and a good sequel to the original The Matrix (1999) that I went to see it with my mom in the movie theater in 1999 when the movie come out. I love this movie even if some people are saying is not that good I still love it and love The Matrix Revolutions as well. It is one of my personal favorite Keanue Reeves movies.Granted things get bigger and a little darker. The visual effects, go way overboard and the CGI does not bleed in well with the live action. Nonetheless Reloaded is a fun film to watch. The visual aspects blows out of the water. The soundtracks to this movie are pretty good and they are fine of mix songs to the movie.The sequel to successful original movie is an awesome film. Not just a visual wonder but the ambitious storytelling that demands more than your average action film. A wonderful follow up to the outstanding original and a great precursor to the inevitable finale. While it doesn't strictly adhere to normal flow of most films, that is one of its best traits. While it has its flaws, it makes for a fantastically entertaining experience. Not for those who don't want to think too much.It is a good sequel who doesn't deserve to be hated for it. Keanu Reeves and all other cast crew did outstanding performance on their works. Nearly 12 years later have passed since no movie has come close to tapping into the myth, world and action that was created in Matrix Reloaded. For fans of action movies, the story can be as straight forward as you wish it to be, following the path of Neo as man kinds savior. For those who wish to dive deeper, you can see how far the rabbit whole really goes because the amount of hidden references, back plots and information in this movie is immense. For a film The Matrix fans this wouldn't be an action movie without some action. There's plenty of it, and it's perfectly done. The CGI effects creating more Smiths were astonish, were cutting-edge for the time, and still look great (whoever said differently below is simply incorrect) -- even if they're completely commonplace today. Insane action ensues as a well done plot follows.Neo (Keanu Reeves) saving Trinity on the end of the film and than he collapses in to come was awesome and great ending with a cliffhanger so that viewer keeps guessing what will happened next, in the next movie that was just great. The Neo vs Smith fight is just excellent as is the Freeway chase. More Smiths (Hugo Weaving) I think Hugo Weaving did a perfect job as Agent Smith in this follow up sequel. I love his character and I think he is one of the best villains ever. Neo vs a 1000 Smiths fight scene just blew me away/ the martial arts were outstanding action sequences. Overall it is a good film at least it is for me. I will never understand the hate for the sequels for it. At the same time, the complexity of the storyline, and the unexpected plot twists left many viewers a little (or a lot!) confused. We'll admit that it's taken several viewings for us to figure some things out, and that there are still lots of pieces we haven't put into place. Some answers, we're sure, will not be revealed until Revolutions, and some will never be revealed. There are no words for Hugo Weaving except badass!Neo, Morpheus, Trinity, and the rest of their crew continue to battle the machines that have enslaved the human race in the Matrix. Now, more humans are waking up out of the matrix and attempting to live in the real world. As their numbers grow, the battle moves to Zion, the last real-world city and center of human resistance. That is the basic main plot and it is good so I am giving 9/10 for been a good action movie. It is one of my personal favorite Keanu Reeves movies.

Of all the big-budget sci-fi sequels that are winging their way across our cinema screens in 2003, the two MATRIX sequels are amongst the most highly regarded. So how does THE MATRIX RELOADED stand up to the ground-breaking original movie? I would say very well; as a film it comes in just under the bar raised by the original's formula, only losing out because the originality of the first film's plot and world are now familiar. This is a film immediately cursed by being the middle of a trilogy: it has no real beginning and no real end. The plot is a major hurdle which even fans will find themselves struggling to overcome. For the first hour and a half, nothing much plot-wise happens at all, then most of the plot is crammed into about ten minutes of screen time, then there's a ludicrous cliffhanger ending which isn't worth much. The result is a film which drags somewhat at the beginning (clumsy out-of-place "rave" sequences, a lengthy and non-too-appetising love scene between Reeves and Moss) and gets far too complicated at the conclusion, with this viewer lost by the endless philosophical debates about human choice.Still, this matters not: the series has not yet lost the "cool" factor. ALL of the major players from the first film are back; Carrie-Ann Moss is particularly well served in scenes that flesh out her character nicely. Keanu Reeves has rather less to do than previously, but he does indeed look "cool" and he gets to fly like Superman, which is pretty good in my book. Laurence Fishburne is also back, beefier than ever, but is pretty much wasted this time around. Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) also returns after being destroyed the first time, although he has less screen time here; well, more in a way, but let me come to that. Newcomers include the imposing "ghost twins" and alluring French beauty Monica Bellucci.Most fans of the series will be looking for hard-hitting action scenes and in this respect the film does not disappoint. In fact some of the best action in the past ten years plays out in this movie. Whether it be incredible kung fu fighting or the seventeen-minute car chase, this movie kicks backside. Two lengthy moments stand out in my mind as highlights: the playground fight between Neo and the Smith clones, which is simply incredible and just gets better and better, leaving me breathless; plus the aforementioned car chase which is incredibly and possibly the best of its kind ever seen in a movie. The special effects are top notch and offer plenty of never-before-seen techniques, progressing wildly from the original movie. So, in a nutshell, THE MATRIX RELOADED is worth watching for the fantastic action alone. Just don't expect a mind-bending plot like the first one offered.

Watching The Matrix Reloaded, one is absolutely entitled to say that it is overloaded, too lengthy action sequences for instance, and indeed, a way too lengthy dancing scene in Zion. But next to that, it is obvious that this sequal to The Matrix (1999)takes the story to a whole new dimension. Different characters define the working of the matrix, and the meaning of life itself, in different ways, depending on their onthological background. A conclusion is not (yet) given, which adds to the movie a kind of postmodern quality. For as far as the action sequences are concerned: Groundbreaking. You'll see stuff that you've never seen before. Sometimes the scenes are a little lengthy, which harmes the narrative, but that is compensated easily by the visual spectacle. And yes, the Architect at the end is difficult to understand, but when you watch the film more than once, you'll find out that it does make sense what he says. All together this movie may not be as fantastic as 'The Matrix', but it is definitely a good movie that will keep you thinking for a while.

We gorge on the binaries prophesied once again, through an ever increasing bandwidth, as we exponentially widen our dietary desire to become what everyone wants us to be without thought for who or what we really are or could be. Getting a bit too close to the man from Nazareth for my liking - bring on the Crucifixion.

Positives:
Directing and cinematographyMain castMusical scoreAction scenesNegatives:
Overbloated storyLack of character developmentSome effects have not aged wellInteresting ideas feel wasted

When I watched The Matrix I really liked it. It was not the best film in my life but it was interesting and twisted. I think the best in The Matrix was the SURPRISE factor. So when Matrix Reloaded was released I went to the theater with high expectations.In Matrix Reloaded the surprise factor is completely lost. Now Neo is Superman and has nothing else to learn because he is indestructible. His only worry is his recurrent nightmare where he sees Trinity dying or something.The movie is full of endless, annoying and ridiculous scenes that makes you check your watch all the time. For example, the rave/orgy in Zion and the pseudo French parrot talk. Both scenes are only made to add some sex spice to the story, which is absolutely unnecessary.The fight scenes are also endless and you already know that no-one can beats Neo so these scenes have no suspense... And what can I say about the fight scene with 200 Smith clones? Everybody was laughing in the theater.The Oracle was replaced by another actress because the original actress died, but Gosh... This new Oracle is very annoying and hollow! She is not an adviser like before! And I really liked Tank character because he was very pleasant. Now they just made him disappear.I do not recommend Matrix Reloaded or Matrix Revolutions. Both of them are just parts 2 and 3 that ruined the original one. I really feel embarrassed cause I liked The Matrix but these two sequels are like the undesirable children.

The creators of The Matrix Trilogy had repeatedly state that this was conceived as a "Trilogy" from the start. Although I haven't a reason to doubt that, the 2nd (and 3rd) Matrix fall in the tradition that many sequels of good movies suffer from.Despite the fact that practically the same cast and crew who created the magnificent first part is here for the 2 & 3 (they shot it back-to-back) the movie quickly loses its spirit.First mistake is the introduction of many many new secondary characters who might not necessarily needed. And these characters are trying really hard to pose as important without that being the case at all.Second mistake is the forced philosophy that didn't actually had anything to add to that of the original. The attempt for a recreation of the perfectly scripted dialog between Neo and the Oracle in the original is a failed one. For some, including me, it even destroys the feeling of the original dialog by diminishing its great themes.Third mistake the (experimental) visual effects this time look completely fake. There is a big fight, shot with something that is described as virtual cinematography, and it's more than obvious that...well..it needs lots of work to be believable.In conclusion when you are trying for bigger and better there is no guaranty that you will succeed. A common thing in movie sequels. A curse, that struck the second (and the third) sequels of the Matrix.

I did not like this very much the first watch. But after watching Revolutions, which I thought was much better, I gave this another chance. The first time you are of course wondering where the story is taking you and it ends up being basically no where. Then Revolutions does go there.Because Reloaded is a second movie, it's the first half of the second movie. With that knowledge this first act becomes much better. Sure the action scenes go on a little too long, while they are very cool, but the second time when you aren't wondering about the plot you can enjoy them a little more.Maybe it would have be easier if they called this movie part one.My only problem with this movie is that it's uneven. There is over an hour of laying down plot line after plot line. Then action scenes that are very long and lose their significance to the story about half way through.Now all of the dialogue and action scenes are very good but there should have been a little bit of break up to make it easier on us and even it out. The last third corrects this problem though.Very good after a second viewing. The two movies are structured like one movie. It's really like watching The Empire Strikes Back, pausing it after Darth Vader shows up at cloud City and waiting 6 months to finish the movie.Please give it another chance and you will enjoy.

"Commander Lock: 'Not everyone believes what you believe.'Morpheus: 'My beliefs do not require that they do.'Characters are always talking like this in 'The Matrix Reloaded,' which plays like a collaboration involving a geek, a comic book and the smartest kid in Philosophy 101. Morpheus in particular unreels extended speeches that remind me of Laurence Olivier's remarks when he won his honorary Oscar--the speech that had Jon Voight going 'God!' on TV, but in print turned out to be quasi-Shakespearean doublespeak. The speeches provide not meaning, but the effect of meaning: It sure sounds like those guys are saying some profound things.That will not prevent fanboys from analyzing the philosophy of 'The Matrix Reloaded' in endless Web postings. Part of the fun is becoming an expert in the deep meaning of shallow pop mythology; there is something refreshingly ironic about becoming an authority on the transient extrusions of mass culture, and Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) now joins Obi-Wan Kenobi as the Plato of our age."My thoughts:Nothing sums up the hype surrounding "The Matrix" trilogy better than the above quote from Roger Ebert. Like him, I believe that much of the hype surrounding "The Matrix" and its sequels is nothing more than shallow philosophy mixed with allegorical and metaphorical strains of the Bible, among various other religious texts and two guys love of comic books. Do I believe any of it? Absolutely not, and I honestly hope that the people who seem to watch these movies religiously do not believe any of the things they say about it either.It's been four years since the first "Matrix" film wowed audiences back in 1999 with its special effects and mind-bending story. It has since been followed by a frighteningly devoted fan base, countless books and various interpretations of the plot line. I don't view the "Matrix" movies as anything more than a "Christ" parable and a very shallow one at that. The movie has its influences deeply rooted in Christianity (the most obvious), as well as Japanese comic books (Manga), Anime ("Ghost in the Shell" and "Akira" come first to mind), Hong Kong action flicks, and countless other sources that have been rolled into one hell of an action film.And also like Ebert, I make these statements with amusement, not criticism, mixed with a little bit of bewilderment. You see, like most movie-going people, I was put into awe by the special effects and story. I loved the first film and it's a classic, believe me. The first "Matrix" film is an obvious achievement in special effects and a landmark in science-fiction,but unfortunately its sequels aren't bringing anything new to me and (obviously) to others, which brings me to "The Matrix Reloaded."The cons:The biggest problem I have with "Reloaded" is that it many times tries to be deep and meaningful but fails miserably most of the time. The fight scenes aren't really worth any particular mention (the only exception being the "88 Smiths" and the much-talked about 14-minute "Freeway" chase) either. Many of them only seem to be in this movie to eat up time and don't have any significance to the story.That, to me seemed to be the biggest fault with "Reloaded." In "The Matrix," the big lobby scene in which Neo (Keanu Reeves) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) get into a huge shootout with a S.W.A.T. team, signaled the start of a glorious rebellion within the system but not only that, kept your eyes glued to the screen for the rest of the movie, all the way up to when the credits start to roll and Rage Against the Machine plays on the soundtrack.The fights in "Reloaded" are too repetitive and seem to take forever to be over. Also, the romance in this film seemed to be way too tacked on to be believable. I wanted to see Neo and Trinity become a couple but I have to say that they have no chemistry on screen whatsoever. Their love scene is intercut with a huge mosh pit scene about 30 minutes in after Morpheus gives this huge inspirational speech and everybody goes nuts.Any plusses? Well yeah, that's why I gave it a six out of ten. I have to say, that while the fight scenes seem to be a bit on the excessive side, they're extremely well executed. The cinematography is beautiful, giving "Reloaded" a unique and eerie look. The "flying" scenes with Neo are very well done too.To sum up:"The Matrix Reloaded" was at best, failed potential but it shows what happens when you try to put too much into one movie.P.S: If I want a science-fiction movie with real philosophy (emphasis on "real"), I'll go and watch "Blade Runner," "The Terminator," or "Ghost in the Shell," the latter film was a key (read: obvious) influence of the "Matrix" films.6/10

The writing lacked much depth as most of it was filler with very little substance, a huge difference from the amazing story throughout the first film. There were too many melodramatics and too many and too long unnecessary fight scenes and visual effects. Sounds weird I'm complaining about the abundance of things I like, but without a solid story, they become less impressive and more of an annoyance. Let's hope the continuation is better. Sadly it's a 7/10 from me.

The thing that really strikes me about The Matrix Reloaded is that the increase in quality, if it can be said that there actually is one, from the first movie is more the result of an increased budget than anything else. I loved the new movie, but the talent was there in the first one, you can just tell that in the sequel the Wachowski brothers had a virtually endless budget, which allowed them to do pretty much anything they wanted. They have a very distinct style that is clearly evident in all of their movies, even if they are not laden with special effects. The fluidity of the camera movement and the strangely dark tones of their films are only a couple of the techniques that make them recognizable. These things really come to the surface if you watch the Matrix films, some of the most recognizable films ever made, and then watch an earlier one of their movies, like the trashy 1996 thriller, Bound.That being said, I think it's safe to say that, despite the massive and seemingly unsurpassable genius of the first Matrix film, the Wachowski brothers have made another step up from their last film. It should be noted that the film is the second part in a trilogy, especially before groaning out loud at the sudden ending of the film, which built up and built up and built up and then just stopped, just like the fist Lord of the Rings film did. I won't take time here to go into what the story is about and how it continues the story from the first film, if only because plot summary in film reviews is a total waste of time for the writer as well as the reader, and also because I've only seen the movie twice, which really isn't enough to get a total grasp on the depth of the plots, so I'll just suffice it here to say that the startling complexity of the original Matrix (a complexity which is almost unheard of in a science fiction film) is added onto and expanded in this film, although despite being hard to follow, is never confusing.I've heard all kinds of talk about the Italian Job having an even better car chase than The Matrix Reloaded and how the chase in this film wasn't even that good at all, blah blah blah. There is a freeway chase scene in this film which recklessly promotes reckless driving (and, even worse, reckless riding), but it is one of the most impressively made and fascinating car chase scenes that I've ever seen. It also contains the characteristic style of the Wachowski brothers, and is famously filmed on a freeway that was constructed strictly for the filming of this scene. I can't remember where, Australia, I think. Anyway, Morpheus and one of the agents are having a kung-fu fight on top of a semi trailer (which the driver never seems to notice), the poor keymaker in struggling to stay out of the way, Trinity is flying between cars against traffic on one of the most badass motorcycles on the road (enter the Ducati commercial), and Morpheus is off doing, as they say, `his superman thing.'The superman thing is one of the elements of the movie that bordered on being campy, as the multitude of Agent Smiths comment to themselves, `He's still only human.' And then in the next scene he's flying. This is one of the points where you really need to keep in mind that Neo's body is plugged into a machine, in the strikingly less appealing real world, and is basically playing a video game where he'll die in real life if killed in the game because his body will think that it has been killed for real and will shut down.During the freeway scene, there's a camera shot where the camera literally goes right through the chassis' of a couple of semi trucks as it follows Trinity, which I think got the biggest reaction from an audience in a single scene that I've seen since that Velociraptor jumped up at the ceiling in Jurassic Park. One of the other most memorable scenes is the lengthy fight scene between Neo and the hordes of Agent Smiths, one of the most entertaining fight scenes I've ever seen. It's obvious that the vast majority of this scene is special effects (and not only because there are hundreds of the same guy in it), but it is so well made and convincing and even amusing that the entertainment value of it is massive.
The new villains, by the way, are some of the best new villains since the Reapers in Blade II. I've heard something about an albino interest group that's trying to sue for the way albino's are portrayed in this movie because of these guys, although I can't exactly agree that they're even albinos. These guys are so weird looking they're barely human. If the albino interest groups are trying to sue, why didn't they sue when Me, Myself, and Irene was released? Anyway, these guys have the interesting skill of becoming transparent and therefore untouchable, with the small condition that they are also unable to attack when in this defensive mode, which makes for some great fight scenes as well as some cool tricks, like that of hopping into rapidly approaching Escalades (oh, there are lots of Cadillac commercials here, too). I heard recently that Cadillac is trying to aim for a younger audience than the much older people who tend to drive their cars, and if there were ever any doubts that the rumors are true, they are completely dispelled by their heavy placement in this movie.
There are certainly some scenes in this movie where it drags and seems to even border on being unnecessarily philosophical and confusing, such as in the extensive meeting with the Oracle, who tells Neo all about choices that he has made but doesn't know he's made yet, or needs to make even though fate has already determined what decision he would make, or something of that nature, where after a while we find ourselves (or at least I did) paying more attention to the pigeons walking around in this startlingly different atmosphere than to the deep conversation that they're having. Maybe this is why it takes me more than two viewings to get the complete story of movies like this. Blasted pigeons.There is a lot of controversy over the quality of The Matrix Reloaded, which is to be expected, since it is a movie that has garnered such a vast amount of attention, even if only because it is the follow-up to such a massively successful film. But like Terminator 3, I personally was hugely impressed with this sequel, and am more than able to accept it as a bridge between the original and the final film in the series. It is the better part of three hours long, but goes by much faster than anticipated because it is so well made and entertaining. Never mind that totally campy scenes, like the bullet removal scene and the dance club scene, because like so many other sequels these days (and unlike so many others), The Matrix Reloaded will leave you eager to see the next one.

It sure is. The visuals, the story, and all of the references are all over my mind. It's a good action flick with a decent dystopia plot, but watching the Matrix film series and its 2nd movie Matrix Reloaded get really, really confusing. I know the first Matrix (1999) movie was just as baffling, but in here in this sequel, it's over complex. To simple down the over complex plot for you, this is how it goes: Neo (Keanu Reeves) must decide on saving Zion and risk killing Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss) or allowing Zion to meet its doom by saving Trinity. That's it, everything else in the film, you don't need to understand, unless you want your mind blow by stress trying to figure it out. For the normal mindless popcorn flicker, there are plenty of action in the film. I like the brawl with a hundred Agent Smiths (Hugo Weaving), Château fight, and the Highway Battle. In the burly brawl, did they really use a sound of a bowling ball knocking over pins? Yes. Now, that's just silly. The CGI in the film was amazing. There are plenty of slow bullet time for you to sink your teeth into to the point, it's become somewhat a parody of its normal self. There are moments in the film, I kept asking myself, do we really need that 'there'? Talking about things not needing to be there. I always skip the cave-rave scene every time I watch the film. It's so pointless and out of place. It looks like an orgy full of cavemen beach bums rather than a Matrix movie. I adore all the philosophical discussions of free will v foreknowledge, Taoism, the references to Plato's Allegory of the Cave, the levels of realities, and so on, so on, but a lot of this film has so much exposition that never get explain or go anywhere. There always beating around the bush in this film that it leave you mind-boggling. Deliberately ambiguous or unclear in order to mislead or withhold information might be a great plot device, but overwhelming the story dialogue with too much intelligent with little to no result can leave the audience asking themselves, what did they say? Not everybody is as mindful as those of the writers. They even put a theory about werewolves and vampires in the middle, that is confusing and never brought up again in the film. Even some of what they are talking about, isn't totally truth in a certain P.O.V. such as the topics of Control, and understanding choice. There is no bigger epic failure of exposition dialogue than that of the Architect, that supposed to explain everything in the Matrix World. It all sounds reasonable when he explains it to Neo, but it isn't very logical. It's the stupidest world building ever. It leaves a lot more questions, then it does provide answers. While, the 3rd movie in the film series Matrix Revolution (2003) did explain more, it's still a huge headache worth of information yet to be explain. There are whole chapters of books and videos trying to understand the whole Matrix mythos and how it is mediated across both film and games, with all different opinions and so call answers to questions to what the film is trying to say. In my opinion, the writers Lana Wachowski and Andy Wachowski felt like they were trying too hard to developed a complex plot and it hurt the film a bit as some people found the dialogue to be boring, confusing, or sometimes hard to follow. It isn't an easy subject to wrap your mind around. So to some people, it might be not entertaining. I do like the new characters that they add to the story. I do enjoy Link (Harold Perrineau). He probably the best new character, I like. The role of Zee, Link's wife was originally given to singer/actress Aaliyah, who was killed in a plane crash on August 25, 2001, before she could complete shooting her part for The Matrix Revolutions. Nona Gaye replace her. It sad that happen during film. Overall: Seeing that this is the second movie in the trilogy. I did like it, but the ending was kind of a downer. I wouldn't say, it's better than the 1st movie, but it wasn't a total failure like some critics pan it. In my opinion, it's worth the ticket price when I saw it in 2003 and worth having it as a DVD in my DVD collection.