When I was a kid I watched this like, a million times. My native language wasn't english, so despite being a child not understanding anything, I loved the movie. It's full of christmas and spirit. I would want a train like that go by my home

I have to say that I adored 'The Polar Express'. It was just the sort of film I needed to truly get me into the Christmas mood. The story revolves around a young boy, who is coming to an age where he is doubting Santa Claus' existence, until the Polar Express- a magical train destined for the North Pole- takes him and a group of other young children on a journey to Santa and to reaffirm their faith in Christmas.I had reservations about the use of CGI animation since I felt it really only worked for stories about cute animals but having seen the film, the CGI was the best way to capture the spirit of the film. It really wouldn't have worked as well in live action, the sense of other-worldly magic would have been lost. And as it was, the artwork was beautiful, especially the snowy mountainous scenery that the train passes through.This film took me back to my childhood and that tingly-feeling every child gets on Christmas Eve in anticipation of Santa's visit. The story was sweet and innocent without being nauseating, and I think every one of us can empathise with the boy who wants to believe in Santa but is growing away from the innocence of early childhood and faith in magic. Much like Raymond Briggs' 'The Snowman', I predict 'The Polar Express' will go down as a Christmas classic. It certainly makes a pleasant change that this year's Christmas film was actually about Christmas and I hope they make the re-release of this film an annual Christmas event.

Don't get me wrong, I liked this movie very much. It is nice to watch around Christmas time. The film respects the book of the same name, which I think is a great one. Actually it was one of my favourites, a timeless Christmas story about the power of belief, faith and hope. Back to the film, one thing that was a definite plus was the visuals. They were phenomenal, colourful and looked as though the animators had gone to extreme lengths to make it neat. The character animation was just as impressive. The music is very good, with sparkling motifs and haunting secondary themes. The end credits song is truly beautiful. Another plus was the voice cast, Tom Hanks stands out obviously. He voices five or six characters here, and he was great as always. However, the film does take a while to get going, and the script is rather simplistic. And while the visuals were outstanding, the story while respectfully true to the book(while adding characters and changing existing ones) just isn't compelling enough, and is made up of disconnected,unexplained and sometimes rushed scenes in terms of story telling. All in all, a nice Christmas film that is well worth watching chiefly for the visuals. 7/10 Bethany Cox

It's Christmas Eve and a young boy is having doubts that Santa Claus exists. Then a magical train, the Polar Express, appears outside his house. It's destination? The North Pole. Its young passengers are going to meet Santa, but not before having some adventures along the way.An animated Christmas movie that doesn't go anywhere particularly new nor profound but is still great entertainment. Wonderfully sweet and warm in tone and filled with some great adventures, it's quite difficult to dislike.Can't fault the graphics: great and quite novel for the time. Casting is also spot-on, with Tom Hanks in several roles.

This is really an amazing movie, taking place on christmas eve. Those people who are like "its not realistic" it's a christmas movie for gosh sake. Enjoy it. It gives me flashbacks of how I always used to have christmas. It's very amazing. We watch it every year!

What an abysmal piece of trash. This is nothing but a lame attempt to use Hanks as a vehicle to cash in on some new 'technology'. The film is a total dud. Dumb, boring, annoying, irritating...I mean everyone looks like a freakin' mannequin, but oh wait, they MOVE realistically. So amazing. Too bad the novelty wears off in what, the first minute?The train is filled with the most annoying bunch of kids you'll ever hear. There is absolutely NO PLOT whatsoever, just a train riding around with some stupid obstacle getting in the way every 5 minutes so they can show off more of that amazing new technology. Pad this out to 90 minutes and you have TPE. The movie is so beyond hurting, I mean we're forced to sit through singing and dancing waiters for what? So things can move on screen really fast and we can be even more stunned by those amazing visuals? Its like they just threw anything and everything out there to get this to feature length.Tom Hanks is as awful as ever. I mean the guy has zero range. Every movie he's the exact same no matter how hard he tries, even his voice as a conductor is unbelievable. I'm so glad this is flopping because its not a movie, its a pathetic attempt by Hanks and some computer geeks to milk people. Next time give us a movie instead of a showcase of your computer coding. One of the worst of the year.

My favorite Christmas movie!The animation is so goodThe story is so goodSo charmingSo magicalIt's near perfect.My only issues is that is slows down for a moment a couple times and I'm having such a good time it always annoys me, I'm like let's get back to the fun!It's a must watch every December. Alone with eating pizza! I don't know why put I'm always in the mood for pizza and snuggle up while watching The Polar ExpressI need to read the book, I didn't even know it was based on a book. I recently fount that out, that the movie sucks compare to the book. If that's true... How good is the book then?! Cause the movies is the best Christmas movie ever! And I'm not even all that big in Christmas movies, just a handful that I like.

I just watched this with my kids last night. I'm sorry, but I just can't square this Santa and North Pole with a standard like that of "Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer." In "Rudolph" it was full of love and humor, forgiveness and humility. This Polar Express version is dark, authoritarian, and punitive. I also can't believe it earned a "G" rating with so much excessive danger and stressful suspense (train on the ice, Christmas star nearly killing an elf, etc) - my three-year old got scared and had to turn her head six times! How awful! (She kept coming back because her 6-year old brother was still watching.)In "Polar Express" the conductor, Santa and the elves are humorless and of a "law and order" mentality that is prim and schoolmarmish - this is Christmas Eve, guys! Loosen up! And what is with Santa, anyway? He clearly has a messianic complex that is fed by the uniformed cheers of thousands of sycophantic elves at the Nazi rally - er, midnight takeoff of the sleigh - when he makes his appearance. And when Santa confronts the kid who picks up the lost reindeer bell, why so impolite? The boy picks up the bell and then Santa appears out of nowhere and towers over him, and the kid turns around and is obviously scared - c'mon, it's SANTA, people! - and what does Santa do? No introductions, or "Hello, I'm Santa, what's your name?" Instead, he says, "What did you say?" in a very accusatory manner. What a jerk! But then, he runs a Bushian North Pole that has secret video monitors on every kid alive, conveniently priming tomorrow's kids for a future with no privacy. From saintly divine judgment to a petty spy: that's this Santa. Imagine Soup Nazi mates with Santa (woah), and you have this guy.So I give this 2 stars because there IS some lip service to the real message of Christmas (what, it's not about just getting stuff?) and the graphics of the train (especially the hot chocolate sequence - that is actually excellent) are good in a Fritz Lang sort of way. But if you want the spirit of Christmas, this is NOT the movie.