This movie was really painful to watch. It was an extremely busy and annoying movie without anything funny or original ever happening. The humor was just completely wrong and totally unfunny.The story is just basically about nothing and only serves as an opportunity for Mike Myers to show his silly antics on the screen. He is however given awful material to work with and an awful imagine-less director to direct him. The movie is annoyingly fast paced at times and it relies to heavily on just Mike Myers. Alec Baldwin does play an enjoyable and good 'villain' and they could had really used him better in this movie. There are really some missed opportunities here...OK I have to admit that there are some good and funny moments but really not enough to save this movie from being a disaster.I did liked the visual style in this weird typical fabricated world with all those weird looking sets and colors. It really reminded me of the Tim Burton movie "Edward Scissorhands". No wonder it did, director Bo Welch worked on "Edward Scissorhands" as the production designer. Unfortunately the visual style is underused and doesn't play a significant enough role in the movie. While watching this movie I really kept on wishing that Tim Burton would had directed this movie with perhaps starring Johnny Depp, how perfect would that had been?I don't see how anyone could like this movie and I most certainly can not recommend this movie to anyone, especially not to children. If this was a movie made for children than it was done completely wrong. There is nothing to enjoy or find imaginative in this annoying, loud, too fast paced mess of a movie, that has totally no story and a wobbly message in it.3/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/

This is an okay movie. And the visuals are nice. The virtual world is really polished. And the colorful costumes do make a break from the usual movie. The jokes are okay, but nothing special. And the children seem to have fun. But, boy, I had no idea Dr. Seus was a fundamentalist Christian poster boy. That would explain the poor box office results compared with worse movies.Contact me with Questions, Comments or Suggestions ryitfork @ bitmail.ch

Dr. Seuss's stories are funny and charming, and some of them like How the Grinch Stole Christmas and Horton Hears a Who have been made into surprisingly good films.(Jim Carrey was brilliant as the Grinch but the animated short is a wonderful timeless classic) However, Cat in the Hat is just a joke of a film. I saw it with four of my friends at the cinema for my 12th birthday 5 or 6 years ago, and all of us hated it.The main problem is the casting of Mike Myers, or miscasting more like. He was good as Austin Powers and Shrek, but his performance as the Cat was beyond cringe worthy. There were times when he had a preposterous Scottish accent that didn't suit him at all(it sounded nothing like the voice he used on Shrek), and all the Cat had to do was make terrible fart jokes, and sing songs with lyrics that were impossible to decipher.The script was terrible, full of fart jokes and clichéd one liners. Kids are most unlikely to laugh at the overused bathroom humour, they will a find it unfunny, or b find it offensive. None of the 5 of us laughed once in this movie, other than when the Cat was singing.The film does have two redeeming qualities. One is some nice scenery in the latter half of the film. The other is Dakota Fanning, who was the only actress in the film who made some effort to make her character true to the story. Kelly Preston was okay, and Alec Baldwin is very good in films like the Shadow and Hunt For Red October, but in films like this and Thomas and the Magic Railroad, he is completely wasted as the villain.All in all, a lifeless and unfunny film. It isn't quite as abysmal as Home Alone 4, but it is really awful. I am sorry if I have offended anyone, I genuinely hate criticising movies, but Cat in the Hat really did take the biscuit. 1/10 for the scenery and Fanning. Bethany Cox

The Cat in the Hat is yet another PG-rated film which defies the laws of film ratings. The movie is supposed to be a kid's film, but sneaks in some mild adult content to get laughs.This film is unfunny on all levels. Okay, there are probably one or two scenes that made me laugh, but the rest of the movie has stupidly unfunny jokes. Worst of all, the funny parts are supposed to be those that have the mild adult themes. I thought this was a FAMILY movie, not a sex comedy! I guess only those kids who are spoiled and are used to nudity & porn will like this movie. There is a cameo appearance by Paris Hilton, who has done a sex video before. Maybe those kids who watched her sex tape will love seeing her dance suggestively in this movie. They would also love the mild sexual jokes, since they would understand them. It is sickening to think about the young children knowing about all this adult stuff at a young age.The cat himself is very annoying. It seems that the filmmakers were trying to make him scary & funny at the same time. They were probably thinking of creating the cat as a Freddy Krueger carbon copy. Freddy is one thousand times funnier than this lame cat. In fact, Freddy could slice him up any time. I would get more laughs that way.And lastly, of course, this film has nothing to do with the Dr. Seuss books. It's no wonder that the fans of the Dr. Seuss series were angry at this movie. If I was a fan of those books, I would be angry too.To sum up, this film was really an insult to Dr. Seuss, to nursery rhymes, and to comedy itself. I despised this film on all levels, even if a few parts were funny. Watch this movie only if you're a kid who knows a lot about adult themes.I give this movie a 0/10.

A fine children's story of magic and fun is turned into a lamebrained attempt at a 'modern' tale, complete with useless extra plot points and characters. Every 5 minutes or so I found myself saying "What were they *thinking*?" in that kind of bored tone I normally use for infomercials (of which, of course, there is one in the movie.) What were they thinking when they included Alec Baldwin in this thing? What were they thinking with the whole Hooberdooberlooberwhateveritwas subplot? And most importantly, what are they thinking of now, and how can I avoid the product of that thinking? Give this one a wide berth - its a turkey.

I don't feel like any more needs to be said than just this: no one needs to ever think of or remember this movie. It can be stored away somewhere very far away. I just cannot stand looking at that cat monstrosity for what feels like an eternity.If you can stomach the appearance of the cat, well, maybe there is hope of a different opinion. I just don't know.

Bombastic, high fructose attempt to realize on set what was never meant to be more than a bedtime story illustration.Pretty far removed from the tone of the original book, there is so much padding that the whole thing becomes rather risible. it's all fun in a grotesque way but you have to be in the mood to laugh at the lame CGI gorged jokes as well as with them.Mike Myers makes a pretty vivid Cat who can be a little annoying and more than a little terrifying.It's stupid, but sometimes stupid things are bizarrely distracting.

I rented this film after seeing the trailer, which looked pretty good, but the film was slightly better.It was quite unusual seeing Mike Myers dressed up as a cat, but the film is a fantasy and it is bright and colourful from start to finish. There were a few downsides in the film such as some of it that wasn't like the book and the, "Dirty hoe," pun because when I heard the Cat say it, I thought he was referring to a prostitute. Also the children's screaming when they first see the Cat is over the top.One of my favourite scenes is the big slide of the purple liquid because it looks fun. The scene that is most like the book is the one where the Cat (plus some others) clean the house with the special cleaning machine.While most people give this film 1/10, I give it 7/10 because it is funny in parts and the Dr Seuss-style Universal and Dreamworks logos at the beginning are brilliant.