I find it hard to believe that kid's movies these days will ever be called classics in years to come (excluding Pixar movies). In my mind, this is the last classic hand drawn film, and it upsets me that I have to wait for another five years for it to come out on DVD. This film deals with great issues and involves a huge conflict for the main character, something that recent kid/family films lack. It is funny and lighthearted when it should be, and heartfelt and serious when it needs it. I believe that everybody should see this movie, regardless of your age. It may just be the last good movie that Disney will ever do without the help of Pixar.

This movie is, quite seriously, the Citizen Kane of Disney animation. Every animated movie from Disney ever since has been a failed attempt to recreate the masterpiece that this film is. This movie is an anomaly in a market usually dominated by formulaic kiddie-fare. Unlike most films from animation studios, this movie will enthrall you, whether you're 5 years old, or 50. An epic plot, intriguing characters, great music and hillarious moments make this film a family classic that will endure through the ages. 10/10

The Lion King is viewed by most as the peak in Disney's renaissance period and remains, to this date, the highest grossing 2D animated film of all time. With Disney on such a high expectations were, while this was increased by the superb vocal talent and wonderful animation, and for many those expectations were met. Though a lot are going to disagree with me, I have to come out and say that I think the film is kind of overrated. That doesn't mean I dislike it as a matter of fact I agree that it does have fantastic elements, but for the heaps of praise it gets I'm not sure if it holds up well enough.The story is effectively a toned down Hamlet. A lion prince named Simba is born, meaning that his cruel uncle Scar is now second in line to the throne. Scar plots to kill both King Mufasa and Simba, succeeding in killing Mufasa and making Simba believe he was at fault. Simba flees the kingdom and remains in exile for a number of years, until figures of the past challenge him and he must return home to take his rightful place as king. The story is a very interesting one, it is a much more mature than you would expect from Disney and I really enjoy it for that reason. Everything that happens seems to happen for a reason and there isn't any filler as far as the plot goes. After all this is a very big story and telling it in a cohesive mature manner works very well.The other impressive feature is the animation. It's clear that the animators put a lot of work in to create such a visually pleasing place for this to all happen in. The colours used give the place such a bright beautiful look and it is actually quite authentic looking too. Scenes of bird flying over the vivid landscape or of the sun shining over the land are so beautiful to look at. The character designs were also very good, like the contrast between the powerful Mufasa and the slimy Scar. The sheer scope of things is another wonderful aspect, such as when Scar's paw first comes down or the later Wildebeest stampede. Even things like the backgrounds look massive which gives an extra size to this world.The characters are rather hit and miss. Simba is a bit of a bland lead, he is just a kid for most of it but he does come off as a bit too boring and even obnoxious at times. He doesn't get any better the older he gets and Matthew Broderick's voice only adds to the dullness. Mufasa is just a brilliant character. He is designed wonderfully, has some really interesting characteristics and James Earl Jones' booming voice is perfect for it. A lot of people rate Scar as a top villain yet for me he's just decent. He is enjoyably devious and Jeremy Irons clearly has fun with the role, but he does come off as not that smart and a bit snivelling in the end. Zazu is very funny with Rowan Atkinson delivering some good lines and Rafiki is also very likable for coming across as a good friend. I'm not a big fan of Timon and Pumbaa as they come off as a bit annoying and wink at the camera too much, though they do have some amusing scenes. The Hyenas were daft but entertaining, while I think Nala was underplayed too much.I do have issues with the film. The message that it is trying to get across is an interesting one in how we must learn from the past to move forward. The problem is that when Simba confronts his past nobody believes him until Scar says what really happened. Looking at this you can't help but feel Simba would have been better off lying and that harms the whole point of the message. Also I think a lot of the comedic elements feel very misplaced. For a story as grand and serious as this I can't help but find that the comedy is too trivial at times which is distracting. As mentioned Timon and Pumbaa just feel a bit misplaced because they're jokes are slightly too silly. If done well, like with Zazu or the hyenas antics, then its nice relief but otherwise it doesn't work.Also I really find that the songs are a mixed bag. 'I Just Can't Wait to be King' and 'Can You Feel the Love Tonight' just come off as your typical pop songs and there isn't anything truly catchy or memorable about them. 'Hakuna Matata' is another one everyone loves, but for me it's just annoying. On the other hand however, 'Circle of Life' is a brilliantly grand number that opens the film perfectly and 'Be Prepared' is really catchy with some very enjoyable singing from Jeremy Irons. Elsewhere there are some really memorable sequences here. The circle of life opening is something that everyone should remember, the wildebeest chase is visually stunning as well as pulse-pounding, Simba talking to Mufasa in the clouds is sadly beautiful and the final battle sequence does have some great images. Also I thought it was very brave decision to actually show the body of Mufasa after his death. In fact going on from that the movie does have a very strong emotional core running throughout that is very welcoming and smartly used.On the whole I do think that The Lion King is a very accomplished piece from Disney, I just don't find it as engaging as most people do. This is a big story with a lot of big elements, I just find that whilst most of the work some of them aren't quite as successful. I do wish other Disney films were as acclaimed as The Lion King, but I still find an entertaining and well-made film.

Ah..."The Lion King." There's so much I can say about this movie but all my comments always come down to one thing: this movie is beautiful. Pure genius. A timeless story. I might be a little biased in my beliefs, seeing as the first movie I remember seeing in theatres is "The Lion King" and I still watch it on a regular basis and know all the words but I'm sure there are plenty of people out there who agree with what I have to say. "The Lion King" is beautiful; hands down, it is the best Disney film ever created.The story is something that everyone can relate to, whether they are a lion ;) or not. Simba is destined to become king one day and just can't wait to rule the throne; everyone can relate to wanting to grow up and become an adult, to do whatever they want and not have to worry about anything. His father tries to teach him that, despite the fact that he will one day be grown and king, his life will not be easy. Simba has to learn his lesson the hard way when his Uncle Scar, who, too, wants the throne, kills his father and convinces Simba that it was his fault. Suddenly, growing up doesn't seem so great anymore (I can *really* relate to that).And so, Simba flees his home and comes across Timon and Pumbaa, two other outcasts. They teach Simba the "Hakuna Matata" lifestyle, something that idealizes a life free of stress, worry and responsibility. Now, don't we all wish we could live this way? No worries for the rest of our days... But when Simba's childhood friend Nala returns, he realizes that he can't live Hakuna Matata forever, for he does have a responsibility to his pride and his homeland. Simba understands that he must grow up, as we all do, and does what's right.The songs are catchy and fit the movie well (the original songs, of course, though "The Morning Report" isn't too bad) and the score is haunting and beautiful. Along with the art work, the music captures the heart of Africa.With the types of shows that children watch these days (boy, doesn't that make me sound old?), it's a wonder they'll learn in virtues and values at all. "The Lion King" is a great teacher when it comes to learning lessons that will carry throughout their lifetime. "The Lion King" teaches children that it's all right to be a kid but you must understand and accept responsibility for things you can and cannot control. Everyone has a place in The Circle of Life and we must find it; the film also teaches that we will encounter bad and even terrible things during our lifetime but we must accept them and move on. These are important, meaningful lessons; heck, I even used them in my SAT essay! "The Lion King" is a film for every generation and is a powerful film that all children should see. I'm past my childhood now and I still watch it whenever I get the chance; I look forward to sharing it with my children.A timeless film!

"The best movie I ever watched in any form or any in language".No, I am not exaggerating! It is the best movie ever, whether in human form or in animated. I can't find a single flaw in The Lion King (1994). Someone could argue that the story is not original, Disney just twisted it. Someone could also argue that i didn't watch that much of movies to judge "The Best Ever" but as I said, this the best movie I ever saw. The story is nice and free flowing and without any unnecessary bumpers. One can not recognized the voices behind the characters, because the characters are so prominent. Music! Let me say I am not very fond of English pop songs, but I could hum almost most of the songs of this movie, so I would say, music is that nice. Animation is superb, landscapes are eye catching, dialogues are sharp and comedy is at its best. What more might I say?Beside everything, you can say how crazy I am about this movie by my name. Enjoy the movie, don't leave the seat. Hakuna Matata!

The Lion King is by general consensus the greatest Disney film from their glorious renaissance period (1989-1999), and is undoubtedly worthy of such recognition. Notably, it is the highest rated Western animation on IMDb's own Top 250, which while flawed and imprecise is a good indicator of quality.A loose adaption of Shakespeare's Hamlet, The Lion King is visually stunning, the peak of hand-drawn animation, with a strong voice cast and a wide selection of memorable tunes. It is a tight ~80 minutes, and one sometimes forgets just how quick the movie moves, yet it does so deftly. The characters are well defined, and the arc of Simba's growth, the core of the film, evolves satisfyingly. One could question whether more time should have been spent on Simba's growth in the middle act (there is incredulous imagery as Simba grows exponentially next to the stasis of Timon and Pumba), but to meander so would ask it to be an entirely different film.While it is not uncommon for a side character or two overshadow the main (see the Genie in Aladdin), Matthew Broderick and Jonathan Taylor Thomas (adult and young Simba respectively) are at risk from nearly all of the phenomenal cast. James Earl Jones is a commanding presence, and Jeremy Irons as Scar steals every scene. The 'fools' of the film, be it Timon & Pumba, the Hyena trio or even Zazu, all provide the levity believably, that would otherwise leave an incredibly sombre film. Nala is powerful, though one must note that she seems at times far more capable than Simba to actually achieve anything. Nevertheless, Simba's coming-of-age arc, while predictable, is enjoyable, helped along by fantastic charisma and choice songs.The fact that the film has spawned a wildly successful musical gives a strong indication of the quality of the music, but what is less said is how beautiful the film is. As The Lion King was being released, works were already moving away from hand-drawn animation, with Toy Story released a year later. And The Lion King might be the peak of hand-drawn, with an enormous palate of creativity and variety. The opening vista for 'Circle of Life', the bursts of colour in 'Can't wait to be King' and the sombre tone of 'Be Prepared' all are gorgeous. Yet, special mention must go to the Stampede scene, one of the finest scenes of animation ever.One thing I've developed from multiple viewings is how Timon and Pumba might be the weakest part of the movie. First, their 'life lessons' are essentially reversed by Rafiki. Certainly they are qualified to the point of being narratively sidelined. They feel contrived and even a detraction from the meat of the movie. Their role is the fast food portion of the film- the quick fix over more meatier bits of the film. The entertainment provided is enjoyable regardless, and is essential to round off the movie as Disney.The Lion King is endlessly re-watchable, catchy, fun, while remaining a fantastic piece of cinema and an invaluable part of the Disney canon. Magnificent.

Legendary and one of the best cartoons in history!!(and for me - the best. My mother even told me that I watched it every day as a child!)The tragic story is really instructive, beautiful landscapes and a very warm atmosphere that is memorable. The prescribed characters and the original idea - all this makes watching interesting for any age.Legendary music, beautiful animation and other things that will make you fall in love with this cartoon.It is very strange if someone has not seen this masterpiece yet. This is the classic that, although no one insists on, but it is desirable to know!

Great movie The Lion King is a great film. Along with a great story (inspired by William Shakespeare's Hamlet), terrific animation, and an all star cast of voices, there are the lessons that are learned from this film (despite being a little rough for the younger children). Like responsibility and honor.I rank this animated film among the great films I have ever seen. It was part of my childhood and it is a film experience I will never forget. And hopefully, you won't either. love this movie i will suggest to watch this movie you will enjoy.animals can think they also have feeling and desires they also want to live freely and happily in their own world we should not waste forest and should protect forest