Yeah, it might be unrealistic and cheesy at times but it's still a great movie and pleasant to watch. It's heartwarming and has humanity to it along with cute comedic moments. Tom Hanks Russian accent seems forced in the beginning but I quickly got use to it and seemed natural afterwards. Tom plays a very naive and yet kind hearted guy name Viktor Navorski who can't leave the airport terminal because of certain circumstances. And Stanli Tucci put on a believable performance and fit the mood of this movie well. He plays a Frank Dixon who is the head of security at the airport this movie takes place. And is the one that gives Navorski the most difficult time but without him there wouldn't be this story. The comedic moments in this movie really works and is a film the whole family can enjoy. The different scenarios come together in a delightful manner and that is what this film is, it's delightful and entertaining. So parts just seem way too far-fetched and underdeveloped. But that is passable because this isn't suppose to be a really realistic film. In fact it sorted reminded me of "Forrest Gump" except it takes place in a terminal. Overall this is a movie that adults and kids can enjoy.8.5/10

The film begins with a cool look (green and blue), because Spielberg doesn't think of Immigration as a warm place to be for the few minutes it takes to clear a passenger and get him on his way So all the cool tones are evident until Viktor starts to settle into his new home He is going to be stuck in New York's JFK airport for an unspecified amount of time From this moment we see Viktor stuck, trapped, unable to enter United States and that's the fun of this film Tom Hanks is really so calm, so likable, so emotional, so funny and so real in what he does Here, he's a very dignified person who is extremely trusting and always full of positive hope You couldn't insult him if you try It's very hard to hurt his feelings He finds the bright side of every angle problem he faces and finds a way for him to live with the situation He has the virtue of patience, and the testament to hard work, perseverance, and humility He loves people, and he experiences the culture in an odd way Hanks plays a Krakozhian capable gentleman whose name is Viktor Navorski who finds himself without a passport and a visa once both are taken from him by the powers-that-be at the terminal, because his visa no longer counts, since his country is no longer in existence, and his passport is no longer valid Catherine Zeta-Jones brings vulnerability and insecurity to her unhappy character She plays the gorgeous flight attendant Amalia Warren, a very sensible woman who's always looking for love, trying to find the person that will be her prince She really wears her emotions on her sleeve and is lonely She wants some strong relationship in her life Viktor and Amelia have oceans of things in common and it ends up playing itself out and that's a nice thing to play The story leaves a lot for reflection, and in some ways, Viktor's stillness allows him to be a mirror for the people working in the airport to meditate on their own lives "The Terminal" is a charming film It looks beautifully and elegantly, but realistically

Unlike good friend George Lucas who's spent a grand portion of the last two decades fixated on creating more interpretations for pointless "Star Wars" incarnates like if there was no tomorrow, cohort Steven Spielberg has arbitrarily took different avenues in the film industry to exhibit his versatility as a director and in "The Terminal" he shows just how dynamic he is as a director and after almost 45 years in the film industry, he still manages to come up with a wide range of topics and enlightens us that there is a world out there besides "Star Wars". Just like his previous outing before "The Terminal", "Catch Me If You Can", the subject matter has a humble idea brewing along, but the subtlety by Spielberg along with the likable characters make this one like "Catch Me If You Can" an enlightening character study that will leave you glued to your seat. "The Terminal" could very much be a comeback to Spielberg's early roots when he used to direct more artsy like films, or he may just be doing light, stylish pictures so that he can prepare himself for his next big-budgeted film "War of the Worlds". But for what this movie stands out, we'll just have to sit back and enjoy the ride.Tom Hanks, who has been a favorite performer of Spielberg's stars as Eastern European born Viktor Navorski who came from the fictitious country of Krakoshia and arrives at John F. Kennedy airport in New York City. When he arrives in America he receives the news that his country is embarked in a bloody war and is unsafe to return there. With the government there being overthrown, his country is now just as good as being obsolete which makes Navorski's passport next to nothing. In others he can't go home because he has no home left plus he can't enter America because he has to go through a lot of hurdles to get through. In simpler terms this man has no place to call home to. Viktor's first hurdle he must conflict with is a Homeland Security Officer named Frank Dixon (Stanley Tucci) who tries to simplify things to our uni-lingual immigrant that in our enter the country, he must have tons of paperwork he must undertake and must be completed. Days have gone by and Krakoshia has not let up and a homeless Viktor has now taken residence at Gate 67, Frank now has dilemma right under his nose. Frank feels the only solution would be is to get himself off the hook and let someone else take the Viktor situation off his hands. He gives Viktor approval to leave the area in praying he'll be incarcerated by the immigration officials. Being raised in Communist born country Viktor is oblivious to the government policies and to just patiently remain at JFK airport. This leads to the expected friction between the uptight Frank and the wedge that Viktor has made himself to be towards Frank. With Frank determined to make Viktor's stay more laborious than one deserves, Viktor progressively befriends several employees at the airport which includes the introverted food service worker named Enrique (Diego Luna) who'll offer Viktor food if he can get more info on a fellow employee he's secretly smitten with named Dolores (Zoe Saldana). His other friends include a cargo handler named Joe (Chi McBride) and a custodial worker named Gupta (Kumar Pallana). Viktor eventually gets a job and gets romantically linked to a flight attendant named Amelia Warren (Catherine Zeta-Jones). The characters depicted here is where the comedy factor is featured and at times it feels at most improvised by the cast which speaks volumes knowing the Spielberg is behind the camera. Hanks does a wonderful job here and captures a sense of likability like one of his most enduring characters in the 1990's namely Forrest Gump. Zeta-Jones has a very limited role here, but she excels well here as love-confused character in a vulnerable position. Normally I cringe when Stanley Tucci ends up playing hateful characters because of his reputation of overacting them. Sure his villainy here is portrayed clichéd, but here he's playing it more subtle and that's refreshing coming from Tucci. Granted Spielberg can overthrow us with overly done schmaltz, but here the schmaltz was limited here and that makes the film all the more enthralling. The characters are low-key but developed enough to get to know them and his light direction doesn't give us any indication that this movie is directed by a legend in his craft. The script was done by "The Truman Show" writer Andrew Niccol as he succeeds in keeping the script tight with no heavy-handed stuff to catch you off guard while he succeeds in keeping it unconventional. The final scenes feature little surprises that will shock you in some way to the point of refraining from any kind of contrived Hollywood formula. Overall, "The Terminal" succeeds in being more truthful in showing how developed countries like the United States reacts towards foreigners who want to start a life in this country. The film fends itself nice through the characters and the interactions between them. Its a film that charmingly demonstrates paranoia, insecurity, xenophobia that manifests within the diversity of the American people. This movie can show a sweet side to a rather serious subject without feeling cheated.

Some movies just fascinate us with its cuteness..and here comes "The Terminal". It tells the story of a foreigner who gets stuck in an Airport in the United States and the protagonist's efforts to adapt to this horrible situation forms the rest of the story. Tom Hanks at his very best in this comedy feel-good entertainer. The movie shows us love and innocence could still do wonders in this difficult world.
I bet, you will watch this movie again and again.

It's funny how Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, two of Hollywood's most powerful men, who could literally do any movie they want, end up making something like The Terminal. Instead of reaching for new heights of film-making like including the latest in special effects, or new original ways of storytelling and editing, Spielberg goes back to a simpler form. That in itself is surprisingly refreshing. Filmmakers try so hard to be inventive and change the typical form of the classics, that when someone finally does go back to that Capra or Wilder fashion, it ends up seeming original. That's what The Terminal goes for. A movie about characters, not plot. About emotion, not CGI. It's a true heart-felt piece of work. It's funny, it's cute, and it always keeps you interested.Tom Hanks leads an exceptional cast as Viktor Navorski, a man stranded in JFK airport, not welcome in the U.S. and having no country to come home to. Throughout the experience he makes friends, a love interest, and a rival. He changes all of their lives, of course. That's to be expected from a movie like this. Tom Hanks is totally believable, accent and all. It's a performance well worthy of an Oscar nod.I loved The Terminal for many reasons, but one big reason is it's simplicity. And more importantly, because it is good at being simple. It doesn't contribute anything new to movies, it doesn't try to. It is what it is. A great, feel-good film. Something that is getting rarer and rarer these days. Sometimes you'll want to see a gritty, wrenching melodrama, but other times you'll want to see The Terminal.My rating: 10/10

The movie deals about Viktor(Tom Hanks) is an Eastern European traveller converts a resident of N.Y. airport terminal when occurs a coup state in his country.The war breaks out and is denied entrance to the United States .The Security chief(Stanley Tucci) says him that he has to remain the terminal until his situation can be modified.Meanwhile he has many trouble,he doesn't speak the language so nobody can talk to him .But he makes friends and falls in love with an alluring flight attendant(Catherine Zeta Jones).The picture blends comedy,love story ,a little bit of drama with a lots of fun.It's an entertained film with exceptional and sensible interpretation by Tom Hanks.He makes a magnificent acting as the essentially decent foreign who finding isolated early makes friends.They are a quirky and misfits group magnificently played by Chi McBride,Barry Shabaka and Diego Luna who's deeply enamored of Zoe Saldana.In the film appear the ordinaries Spielberg's technicians as the sensational cinematographer Januz Kaminski,film edition by Michael Kahn and of course the prolific John Williams who makes a lively and jolly music and those years made four excellent scores(Memoirs of Geisha,Starwars,War of the worlds and Munich).Besides an elaborately recreated production design by Alex McDowell reflecting an entirely convincing terminal built for the film.Stunningly direction by Steven Spielberg making an extraordinary camera movement filming small details in close-up as general shots when Hanks to be in the limelight until moves to be in the background . The flick will like to Tom Hanks and Spielberg fans. Rating : Above average .Two thumbs up.

Sometimes, a movie only needs a great idea and a great actor to be really, really good. "The Terminal" is an example of that kind of film making. There are a number of things that prevent "The Terminal" from being an all-time classic, but the performance from Tom Hanks and the "guy trapped in an airport" premise is enough to make for a very entertaining movie.For a basic plot summary, this film focuses on Viktor Novorski (Hanks), who is trying to get from his home country of Krakosau into the United States (New York City, to be exact). On the international trip, however, Krakosau is over-run by rebels and no longer recognized by the U.S. government. As a result, Novorski cannot return home, nor can he legally enter America. He is "trapped" in the airport terminal, waiting for something to happen. Not helping matters is that airport director Frank Dixon (Stanley Tucci) has it out for Viktor. While patiently waiting for a resolution to his situation, Viktor meets a number of friends, including a potential romantic interest (Catherine Zeta-Jones), a woman he greets every day trying to get his status validated (Zoe Saldana), and a number of other airport workers who help him be as comfortable as possible in such a strange situation."The Terminal" is a charming movie mainly because you'll probably never watch a film quite like it. Under the able direction of Steven Spielberg, the movie succeeds in taking a ludicrous situation and making you care about a majority of the proceedings. Of course, it helps to have Hanks in the drivers seat of the leading role, as he turns in yet another performance that will make you think "this can can play anything!". Without his presence, this would be a forgettable experience.Unfortunately, "The Terminal" is completely and utterly unable to capture any romantic chemistry between the Hanks & Zeta-Jones characters. For whatever reason (likely because Zeta-Jones just simply isn't around enough), the emotional backbone of the movie fizzles. For me, this was enough to drop the experience an entire star rating. Had the romance angle been done better, it would have easily been five stars. As it was, there were just too many moments towards the end of the film where I was thinking "I know I SHOULD be wrapped up in these emotions more, but..." instead of just enjoying the experience.Overall, though, "The Terminal" is a quirky, entertaining little flick that really emphasizes the "less is more" philosophy of making a solid cinematic experience. In this case, all it took was a great idea and a great actor. With those components given to Mr. Spielberg, he was able to work his magic (sans a believable romance) with the rest.

Overall I thought the movie was very enjoyable, but I couldn't quite decide which accent Hanks wanted to use. If you listen closely, you can notice that his accent is different from scene to scene and at times it made it difficult to follow what he was saying. I watched the movie on TV, maybe the sound was better at the theater. Did anyone else notice this who saw the movie or was it just my ears playing tricks on me, well I am getting up there in the ages, perhaps it is time for me to think about a hearing aid. I thought the plot was a little lacking, was it a love story or was it about immigration? I thought that the ending could have been better - like Hanks ends up the stewardess, but that is a typical Hanks movie ending. They never really end the way you want them too. I think I have blabbed on now for the 10 lines of text minimum rule. :)

Not a terrible film by all means, but one where it is easy to see why it would polarise viewers (as evident in the user reviews here) and why there are those considering it a lesser Steven Spielberg film.'The Terminal' is not Spielberg's worst film, to me 'The Lost World: Jurassic Park', '1941' and 'War of the Worlds' (which had a very good first half and completely fell apart halfway through and never recovered) are worse. Ranking it in his filmography, it is nowhere near close to being one of his best and while not rock-bottom to me it is lesser Spielberg.Starting with 'The Terminal's' merits, the production values are top-notch and Spielberg regular Janusz Kaminski's cinematography is once again beautiful and a major plus. While not some of his best work, John Williams' score is pleasantly understated and slick without over-emphasising the mood.Of the performances, which mostly are good, Tom Hanks makes a valiant effort in the title role and does an excellent job on the most part and Stanley Tucci clearly enjoys himself as Dixon. Hanks and Tucci's chemistry is where 'The Terminal' is particularly strong. The supporting cast are good, and Kumar Pallana is quite a scene-stealer (though the wet floor stuff does get over-used and repetitive).'The Terminal' starts off well. The story is intriguing, there is a razor sharp satirical edge to some of the comedy and there is an affecting whimsy.However, 'The Terminal' is hurt by the second half being nowhere near as interesting and Spielberg himself (regardless of his technical mastery) playing it too safe with a subject matter that should have been executed in the film more sharply and harshly. There is too much emphasis on the airport-terminal-as-microcosm-of-society angle and it just doesn't work because of how tentatively and safely the subject is approached.Credibility rapidly decreases and gets increasingly strained and too often replaced by the sentimentality going into saccharine overload. Really could have done without the romantic subplot, that was not necessary, felt like thrown in padding and was completely underdeveloped and featured far too much. The lack of chemistry between Hanks and Catherine Zeta Jones doesn't help, nor does despite her beauty Zeta Jones being so bland in a role that gives her practically nothing to do. The characters are also far too neatly black and white with stereotypes that won't bode, and actually hasn't boded, well with some.Overall, wildly uneven that had potential to be good but doesn't ever fully convince. 5/10 Bethany Cox

Although I should not have been surprised, Spielberg and Hanks, had greatness written all over it. But I got suckered into a lot of the bad press around the film and suppose I judged it before I had watched it. Anyway, I have now watched it and I liked it.I thought the first half of the film was absolutely fantastic, the humor, the acting, the character development - they were all good. I thought the second half of the film suffered a little from becoming a bit over emotional, the love story seemed out of sorts and the way the entire airport staff seemed to know every thing about everyone else was a bit far fetched, I worked in an airport for many years and knew virtually no-one from outside the people I worked with on a daily basis, but maybe that's just me! But I forgave the film these slight nuances and allowed myself to enjoy it. I don't think Hanks or Spielberg will win any more Oscars, but it was a very enjoyable way to spend a couple of hours on a Sunday night!!

One of many films undervalued by the Academy. Another excellent work of the duo Spielberg / Hanks.

Viktor Navorski (Tom Hanks) from Krakozhia arrives in JFK. He speaks limited English and has limited understanding. Frank Dixon (Stanley Tucci) tells him that his country has just had a coup and the US has revoked his visa. Viktor is a stateless man with no status. Dixon can't allow him to enter the country but he can't detain him either. Dixon allows him to move freely in the international transit lounge. However the temporary situation turns into a long running saga. Dixon is getting promoted. He tries to get Viktor to leave on his own. Viktor befriends various people. He meets flight attendant Amelia Warren (Catherine Zeta-Jones) and pretends to be a frequent traveler. This is an uncomfortable mix of serious and light-hearted. The whole thing just strikes me as being fake. It starts with the fake country. Then there is Tom Hanks faking an accent. His English is conveniently bad when the movie needs it to be but good enough whenever the movie wants. Also there is the fake setup. There may be a heart-warming funny indie film here somewhere but it needs an unknown to play this role. The story has some serious stuff but the light comedy really whitewashes it. Director Steven Spielberg is probably not the right guy for this film and Hanks is too recognizable. I don't want to be a Scrooge and hate on this light comedy. Most of it doesn't work for me. Spielberg is such a master filmmaker that he squeezes some heart-wrenching moments as well as some light comedy out of it.

um.. nice movie I'm mean i have no time to tell the whole story but u have to see it... tom hanks did a gr8 job he needs a clap and even the other actors were good. The story is something really different and um... i mean the movie was good it has every category: romance, drama and comedy.. a must see... don't know about u people but i rate this movie a "10" and um i guess that i have to do this for 10 lines so.. lets think what Else to write........thinking.......thinking......Huff .........um......okay......so this story is about a guy in airport who lives for 9 months.........thinking.. yes 10 lines got over.. thank people and if u wanna be my friend mail me..( i wrote just because nothing else to write but I'm serious)Rebecca

Viktor Navorski (Tom Hanks) has just arrived from Krakozhia in JFK Airport, when there is a coup in his small eastern country, with the revolutionary forces taking the government by force. The USA does not recognize the new government and the validity of his VISA and passport are canceled. Frank Dixon (Stanley Tucci), the bureaucratic administrator of the airport, who rules by the book and does not show any compassion for people, leaves Viktor, who does not speak English, in the international lounge of the airport with a problem without solution. While patiently living in Gate 67 for a long period, Viktor survives, learns English by himself, makes new friends among the employees of the airport and falls in love for Amelia Warren (Catherine Zeta-Jones). "The Terminal" is a delightful and uncommon fable about a patient man who is trapped by the bureaucracy in the international lounge of JFK. I heard that an equivalent event would have happened indeed in Paris, but there is no reference on the DVD, and the writer takes the credits for the idea of this theme. Anyway, Steven Spielberg is really magic, and was able to make a delightful movie with such a weird storyline. Tom Hanks is excellent as usual and the beauty of Catherine Zeta-Jones is still very impressive. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "O Terminal" ("The Terminal")

I did not want to watch this movie first - I don't like the claustrophobic movies where the fun has been made of the characters who are awkward foreigners that can not speak English. Spielberg's "The Terminal" has got it all but I've came to like it. Technically, it is great - the work of Spielberg's set decorators' and cinematographer's is superb. After a few obligatory jokes based on the main character's total puzzlement and confusion regarding what is happening to him, film starts to look at that man closer and finds a lot in him to admire. The most important for me was the part when we finally find out why Victor Navarsky (Tom Hanks), the citizen of the fictitious Eastern European Country Krakozia came to New York City, NY, USA. The story behind his arrival is simple, sweet, and touching.I did not like Catherine Zeta Jones in the movie - her strength and her weakness are the same - she cannot forget how beautiful and sexy she looks on the screen. Sometimes, it works perfectly ("The Mask of Zorro", "Chicago", and "Intolerable Cruelty"). Sometimes, like in this movie, it does not work at all. Another detail - I don't think that making the villain of huge proportions of Stanley Tucci's character was such a great idea. It is not exactly clear why he is determined to make Victor's life even more confusing and miserable with the tenacity deserving better purpose. It was not exactly necessary to make a hero and saint of Hanks' character, either. With all the negatives, "The Terminal" for me is an enjoyable and uplifting fantasy - sentimental, of course and not perfect but fine and touching.

Oh dear. A great premise for a movie, loosely based on the true story of the immigrant who was stranded at Paris airport due to diplomatic bureaucracy, however Spielberg reduces the whole story to implausible sugary mush.No doubt the director, famed for his heavy-handed and childlike emotional manipulation, thought he was improving the drama by adding a love interest in the shape of Catherine Zeta-Jones, but no one in their right mind could believe that such an attractive and well-groomed woman would ever fall for the shabby, caricature Russian immigrant as played by Tom Hanks. Such a waste of talent and money.Spielberg obviously believes that his audience has a mental age of 10, and an exceptionally low IQ, as that is probably the only target group that would enjoy this very silly and soppy romantic drama. Shame on you, Steven Spielberg, for offering adult cinema-goers this sugary pap!Hanks' performance is no worse and no better than his recent stint in The Ladykillers, i.e. mildly amusing in a cartoonish sort of way. If I were Russian I would be seriously insulted by the bordering-on racist portrayal. Miraculously, Hank's character moved from speaking almost no English to being extremely fluent within a very short period, and gaining a posse of bumbling friends within the airport. The genre should have been listed as fantasy rather than romantic drama. And as for the comedy aspect - I seem to have totally missed it, unless it's deemed funny to laugh at foreigners in a difficult predicament.With some character development and a decent script, this could have been an interesting film, however it's two leads were sadly wasted in this saccharine turkey.