P.K. Highsmith (Samuel L. Jackson) and Christopher Danson (Dwayne Johnson) are the best action hero rock star cops in the NYPD. They get into outlandish chases for nothing arrests. Everybody loves them. Martin (Rob Riggle) and Fosse (Damon Wayans Jr.) are the jokers. Captain Gene Mauch (Michael Keaton) is in charge. Then there are the Other Guys. Allen Gamble (Will Ferrell) is a naive paper pusher. His partner Terry Hoitz (Mark Wahlberg) is still trying to make up for shooting Derek Jeter. Gamble is eager to do paperwork for the heroes and Hoitz hates him for it. Highsmith and Danson finally kill themselves stupidly in a chase. Everybody wants to be the next hero cops. Hoitz forces Gamble to take on a high profile case. David Ershon (Steve Coogan) is an investment banker who lost $32 billion of Pamela Boardman (Anne Heche)'s fund. She demands that he replace the losses and he tries to go on the run. Gamble arrests Ershon on a scaffolding permit violation but a professional team takes him. On the personal side, Hoitz can't believe that Gamble is married to Sheila (Eva Mendes).I would have loved a buddy cop movie with Samuel L. Jackson and Dwayne Johnson. This is just as good in a completely different way. Ferrell is hilarious and Wahlberg is the perfect angry foil. The fighting partners have great chemistry. The angrier Wahlberg gets, the funnier the movie gets. Adam McKay has a great sense of the ridiculous. The story is stupid. The setups are insane. The dialog is hilarious. There are some gut busting laughs.

The movie is funny to start and rolls along nicely but quickly loses all steam and finishes quite weak. Having every single character be an off center borderline nutjob loses something without any straight men to set them up or play off of. Mark Wahlberg played the straight man part well for the first half of the movie but turns as loony as everyone else before it's over. A few laugh out loud moments save the entire experience but it really could've and should've been a better film in general and certainly funnier across the board.Not nearly as bad as Step Brothers but not half as good as Anchorman. Probably Semi-Pro and Jackie Moon levels here.

Honestly, I came to this movie expecting A LOT. I got more than I expected in the first half of the movie, honestly, Wahlberg and Ferrell did extremely well in that half. Ferrell especially made me laugh hysterically, while Wahlberg was averagely good. Just that half of the movie makes it very good. It explained everything well, made me laugh so much and had funny and interesting twists and turns.The second half (rather, the fourth quarter) is kind of boring. As soon as Ferrell loses his "loser" personality introduced in the first half, it becomes average funny but nothing interesting in it more than a Comedy flick - like "Burn After Reading", although the comedy was not bad, it wasn't enough.Here's my final word: Watch it. You will love it and the movie will stick in your head for a lot of time. I liked it, many people liked it. But beware, at the last quarter of the movie, it gets kinda boring. With all that said, the finale was hilarious as well as the credits.

This is a mindnumbing fun detective action parody movie. Come on, if you know Will Ferrell you know what you are gonna get: ridiculous jokes. And the jokes are good. They are cheesy, corny, childish, but they are still good jokes. And that's what this movie is all about, just having some mindnumbing entertaining fun. Short, very short cameo appearances (5minutes) by Samuel L Jackson and Dwayne Johnson. The other cop duo played by Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg are the leading characters of this story and they are being portrayed as whimps. Anything that is dumb than dumber comes to mind when we see these 2 dumb detectives do their thing. Or aren´ t they that dumb after all? Nothing is what it seems in this hilarious action comedy in which Ferrell and Wahlberg discover a billion dollar scam by some pathetic crook from the stock market. Will they catch the crook?Ideally suited for kids. But adults could love it too, because there are some more subtle parody jokes on the detective genre mixed into this movie. Just have a good laugh.

I don't normally write reviews but after reading some of the awful reviews some people wrote about this film I had to come to its defence.This film had me laughing from start to finish. If you like the silliness of Will Ferrell films or the humour in Ted then you will love this film. The comedy can be played very deadpan despite the surrealness (is that a word) of the situation. The comic timing is great and the chemistry between all the main characters is excellent. When I saw this film only had a 6.7 IMDb rating I was a little reluctant to watch it but I saw the trailer and that drew me in. I didn't regret it.If you want some great laughs, watch this film.

Funny enough to watch all the way through without getting bored. Not a work of art but lots of laughs.

I typically only take the trouble to go watch a movie if it has an IMDb rating of greater than 7 out of 10 and fits my genre preferences. So when I saw a 7.1, I was expecting a fairly decent comedy out of two seasoned actors. However, the movie fails on a number of counts:1. Parts of the script play out like a broken tape recorder i.e. mind- numbing repetition of the same lines and similar jokes. It's as if the script writer got permission to put only 10 funny lines in a comedy movie and tried to squeeze every last drop of humor out of them. Constant references to TLC, Wahlberg's "I'm a peacock" line, the constant portrayal of Will Ferrell as a paper-pushing dork etc. made me feel like my mind was turning to mush as the movie progressed. 2. They weren't kidding when they rated it PG-13 for "crude ...language". The movie is overwrought with misogynistic comments and jokes. It literally reminded me of being in school watching a bunch of prepubescent guys belt out one liners like:"I didn't know they sold tampons on wheels" (referring to the Red Prius that Will Ferrell drives), or, "I feel like i'm sitting inside a v****a" (referring to the Prius again).Orgy loving hobos, a grandma passing sexually explicit messages between her daughter and son-in-law etc etc etc. The list is long and I could go on all day. They really overdid it on that count. 3. The plot is weak and devoid of details. It looks like the filmmakers were hoping that no one would care about the story or central theme with the "in-your-face" "comedy". Ferrell and Wahlberg are paper pushing cops (for feeble reasons that are revealed in the movie, and really not worth my time to list) who accidentally stumble into a case far larger than either of them imagined. Contrary to what the plot summary says, nobody wants a part of this case, and the only reason they get into it is because Ershon forgets to file for scaffolding permits for a few buildings he owns. Their investigation ruffles a few feathers and everything goes downhill from there. All of this while these two mismatched cops try to "find themselves", resolve their differences, and fill the shoes of the two knuckle headed "red-bull high" macho cops who randomly jump off a building at the beginning of the movie. Throw in a few car chases, bullets flying willy-nilly, and a stupid wooden gun that Will Ferrell totes around (which is supposed to be soooooo funny for some reason), and that's the summary of this movie for you. Don't waste your time with this one, unless.... actually, don't waste your time on this movie, period.

Just enjoy it for what it is . Ridiculous!It does make you wonder sometimes is this trying to be serious or is it a comedy?No. It's just ridiculous. But fun.

Honestly, don't take this movie too serious, as you'll find yourself, not enjoying it. It's one of the those good popcorn fun, films. The Other Guys is one of the funniest buddy cop movies, I ever saw. Directed by Adam McKay, this action comedy really did work, because it lampoons and satire the Buddy Cop clichés to pieces. The Other Guys focus on two New York City police detectives Allen Gamble (Will Ferrell) and Terry Hoitz (Mark Wahlberg) whom been office pencil pushers for years. When the station's two tops cops P.K Highsmith (Samuel L. Jackson) & Chris Danson (Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson), catastrophic met their end. The two are forced to step up and go after a giant corporate embezzlement case. I have to say, this is one of Will Ferrell's best roles. He wasn't annoying, or over the top. I think, when he's playing the character, with the deadpan straight-laced delivery. It's the best. Yes, he was bit abusive to his wife, (Eva Mendes), but it was play off as laughs. It was too disturbing, not to chuckle. I love how cool and collected, he was for the most part. I love the running gag about him, holding a wooden gun, and his misadventures with 'Dirty Mike and the boys'. Mark Walberg's character is bit bitter & whinny, but the character development, however, does help make him, likable by the end of the movie. Plus, most of his whinny complains were pretty funny. I love his lion eating tuna and peacock needing to fly, speech. Dwayne the Rock Johnson and Samuel L. Jackson's roles, while short was pretty damn entertaining. Steve Coogan is just as funny as the main cast as the supporting character, corrupt multi-billionaire David Ershon. He's so disarming and charming that he's hard not to like. I even like Bed, Baths and Beyond, Captain Mauch (Michael Keaton) who plays a mellow out Police Chief. I love Eva Mendes as Gamble's wife. She is stunning and beautiful. Wish, they had more of her in the film. I can do without Rob Riggie as Martin and Damon Wayans Jr as Fosse. They really don't bring anything to the table. The movie was less funny, when they were around. The movie has a lot of dumb jokes that was mostly a hit for me. Still, the movie was able to be smart enough to be taken serious. The whole Ponzi scheme plot was pretty interested. I like how the end credits are accompanied by with a series of visual displays of the magnitudes, methods, and principal actors of various licit and illicit financial doings of the financial crisis, such as the Bernie Madoff Ponzi scheme, Goldman Sachs, AIG or the Troubled Asset Relief Program. A lot of good information, that people need to know. There is an outtake between Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg at the restaurant plays after the end credits. Without spoiling it, the ending of the unrated version is just over the top though. The unrated version is just not as funny as the normal movie. Some of the movie was brilliant shot. I love the jump to the bushes scenes, and all the bullet time. Most of all, I love the drinking montage. What an unusual version. Instead, of than a time-compression montage, there's a fake continuous shot in which the camera weaves through the slow-mo antics going on over the course of the evening at the bar. It was pretty damn impressed. The action scenes were pretty cool to watch. I love all the shootouts and car chases. It was funny, when the store explore, and how the characters react to it. I didn't mind all the product placements in the film. After all, this movie did introduced me to the musical, 'Jersey Boys' which was awesome. Great use of establish songs, ranging from Foo Fighters 'My Hero" to Black Eyes Peas 'Imma Be'. I also love the TLC references as a running gag. My favorite is Rage against the Machine in the end credits. I like all the celebs cameos in the film, ranging from Derek Jeter to Brooke Shields. Overall: This peacock sure can fly. It really was a good time film.You've seen the good guys and the bad guys, now go see 'The Other Guys'

The Other Guys is an incredibly funny comedy that's gleefully stupid and over the top as well as effectively playing with the conventions of buddy cop movies. Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg are perfect together and have perfect chemistry. Dwayne Johnson and Samuel L. Jackson are ridiculously funny together in their brief scenes. Michael Keaton and Steve Coogan are both great. It's consistently funny with plenty of hilarious moments throughout. It's also extremely well paced. Adam McKay's direction is excellent and the action scenes are surprisingly well filmed. The soundtrack is really good.