The Bourne Identity was one of those films that some people will love for being different to the average action film, but others will hate for it daring to be 'too' different. Unlike the majority of action movies before it, the first Bourne film, despite having stunts and explosions never put it's emphasis on them, as the focus was always on the central characters and their use of brains, rather than brawn to accomplish their goals. The sequel is basically more of the same, but it's a welcome return in my opinion, as cinema needs films that are different to the majority. It's also a good thing as I'm a big fan of Matt Damon. It's unfair that he should continue to get lumped in with Ben Afleck due to their friendship as he has a lot of talent and I think that the fact he's gone for more art orientated films as opposed to the dumb blockbusters his friend was drawn to like a moth to the light shows that he has a genuine respect for cinema. He stars as the title character; Jason Bourne, who, like the film itself is hardly your average action fare. He doesn't utter one liners shortly before or after blowing someone away, nor does he spend most of the movie trying to look cool; espionage is the order of the day and it works very well in the context of the film.Because it's plot heavy, The Bourne Supremacy requires the viewer to watch, and the large amount of talking goes some way to distancing this from most other action movies. However, this could also be seen as a bad point as it can, at times, hinder the movie in the excitement stakes and make it difficult viewing for those that do like their action. The movie spans across Europe to a number of different countries including Germany, Britain, France and Russia and this keeps it exciting as it allows the landscape of the movie to change constantly and the film doesn't dwell in the same area. In fact, the film is very efficient on the whole and it never overindulges in anything, which compensates for the amount of talking and allows it to be exciting. Despite it being more stealthy than most, time is still found for a number of high-octane sequences including fist-fights, explosions and a great car chase that looks as if it could have been lifted straight out of Grand Theft Auto.Overall, I would say that this is a slightly lesser film than the original, but there is still much to like about it and fans of Bourne will no doubt enjoy themselves. It's also recommended if you're sure that every action movie since 1988 is a Die Hard clone...

When Jason Bourne (Matt Damon) is framed for a CIA operation gone awry, he is forced to resume his former life as a trained assassin to survive.Paul Greengrass is a mystery to me. He has a nice script, a solid cast, and can make these great spy thrillers. We are now (as of 2015) up to the fifth Bourne movie. But he has this weird obsession with making his camera shake. I could blame the cinematographer, but I think Greengrass likes this. And it makes no sense to me. Even when characters are standing still, talking, the camera wiggles. Why? One thing that makes this a better film than its predecessor is the decreased role for Julia Stiles. No disrespect to Stiles. I loved her in the 1990s with "10 Things" and "Wicked", but she is not a great actress.

Oh man, I say The Bourne Supremacy is much more thrilling than the first one. The first one was like an introduction of Bourne and now since we know the character, it is left with solid story and thrilled feeling after watching.The story follows after the first installation; Bourne fight back after being framed by the Russian mob and now the CIA is after him.What can I say; this is better than Bond series, with all the actions, sophisticated car chase scenes, the cat and mouse chase and the tactic between the killing machine and the world biggest organization. The soundtrack is also great.This is brilliant movie, somewhat surpass my expectation. I thought it is like a B grade but this is definitely an A.Recommended.Rating: 8/10 (Grade: A-)

This film was surprisingly satisfying for a sequel, in fact it could probably stand alone, as there is plenty of background provided throughout the film. Although the plot line is a little cliché (ex-spy tries to settle down with girl, spy's old boss kills girl, ex-spy seeks revenge), the way Bourne is depicted is surprisingly realistic, which is in keeping with the original film, Bourne Identity. He doesn't manage to keep it together the way characters such as his often do. He is shown throughout the film as unstable, which gives us continuity from the previous film, and allows us to relate to him more than characters like James Bond, for example. Compared to the regular action man, Bourne is innocence one minute, murder the next, a deeply flawed, guilt-tripped, nervous wreck with a smooth finish, making him both identifiable and undefinable with his complexity. The other characters in the film are also well portrayed, Nicky reacts perfectly to encountering a human killing machine, Pamela Landy is both tough and vulnerable when dealing with Bourne, Krill, the Russian assassin, is cold and calculating to the end, and Ward Abbott's eventual suicide was surprising yet appropriate for the classic good-guy-turns-out-to-be-bad villain.

Jason Bourne once again finding himself on the run and having to rely on his training and skills to survive after he is framed for murder.Given that the first film was about Bourne trying to piece his life back together and find out his true identity, the first film was always going to have more of a sense of intrigue about (it was a chase picture as well so it also had the suspense and fast-pace). Supremacy is still successful, but is slightly in the shadow of Identity.To be fair to Supremacy, it does still have enough pace, incident and narrative content to make it enjoyable, but it doesn't offer much that wasn't seen in the first film and without the other strand of Bourne trying to figure out who was it lacks the fun of putting the jigsaw together that was offered in the first film.The cast are good though with a lot of good performances from a solid and reliable cast. The direction is slick and pacey, but once again the film trips itself up with the awful camera work (It wasn't great in the first film, but it seemed to be even worse second time around). This becomes a bigger problem in the fight scenes as half the time you can't problem see what is going on, who has the upper hand etc which takes away some of the enjoyment value within the film.Supremacy is a solid 7 out of 10 all day long, but loses a star for the unbearable camera work.

'The Bourne Identity' was a very pleasant surprise, giving a fairly well-worn genre a much needed freshness. It had its imperfections, but was a very solid and even very good film with much to recommend and introduced a cast-against-type Matt Damon in one of his best roles.It is up for debate as to whether 'The Bourne Identity's' first sequel 'The Bourne Supremacy' is better or weaker. To me, both films are about equal with a couple of improvements at the same time being achieved in 'The Bourne Supremacy'. 'The Bourne Supremacy' may lack the freshness that most of 'The Bourne Identity' had, in terms of basic structure it's a little samey if not exactly routine. The editing, using the shaky camera technique that tends to not sit well with me, does have instances where it does get a bit dizzying and too much. Really didn't like how underused Franka Potente, who brought such a great gutsiness in 'The Bourne Identity' and her and Damon's chemistry doesn't have the chance to register.As aforementioned, along the way there are improvements. The supporting cast have more rounded and better developed characters, with the actors having more to do. The final act in 'The Bourne Supremacy' is more cohesive, more consistent and less cliché-ridden than 'The Bourne Identity' got towards its end. There is also even more substance and emotion thanks to more emphasis on that and the plotting characterisation than the more action-packed (but still intelligent and exciting) 'The Bourne Identity'.Visually, like 'The Bourne Identity', 'The Bourne Supremacy' looks slick and stylish with even more breath-taking locations. The editing and camera-work are not perfect, but mostly the technique did intensify the intensity and atmosphere and didn't make anything incomprehensible, some of it is used more artfully than most times shaky cam is used (too often abused to excessive lengths). When it was a problem it wasn't constant and more than not there wasn't a problem. And this, and in no way is this intended to sound superior or conceited, is coming from an epileptic.Music score is even more dynamic, atmosphere enhancing and more layered this time round, while Paul Greengrass' drama-documentary style and background to his directing is used to full advantage. The script has more prominence here, and is sharp and intelligent without being too talky in a more script and plot heavy instalment. The story is exciting and thrilling with relentless pacing, poignant and dark emotion and with nothing too hard to follow.Despite less of an emphasis the action is very diverting and choreographed and performed beautifully. The final action sequence and the subway scene have a real adrenaline-rush quality, and in no way does the action strain credibility or get too bombastic while still delivering splendidly on the fun and thrills to edge-of-your-seat effect.All the characters engage and are interesting, with Bourne well-established in development and the supporting cast have more to do and in general are better utilised. Matt Damon continues to impress in a departure role that proves to be one of his best. In support, Joan Allen steals every scene she's in and Brian Cox is given room for more menace and dimension this time. Karl Urban is chillingly cold-blooded. Only the underusing of Potente disappoints in this particular element.All in all, a worthy sequel that is just as good (on the same level pretty much) as its very good predecessor. 8/10 Bethany Cox

THE BOURNE SUPREMACY (3+ outta 5 stars) Nifty follow-up to "The Bourne Identity", one of the best action-thrillers to come out in recent years. Even though these movies don't skimp on excitement they also provide plenty of story and character development so that you don't feel you're being bombarded with one idiotic action sequence after another. The storyline isn't quite as gripping as the first... at times it seems to be just repeating itself... but ultimately the movie proves itself to be a worthy successor, thanks to the performances (Matt Damon as Bourne, Brian Cox as the head of a super-secret US spy agency... and the addition of Joan Allen as a determined investigator determined to track down and neutralize Bourne). Franka Potente doesn't have as much to do this time around... but Julia Stiles gets one especially intense scene that shows off her acting skills to the max. Yes, when you get right down to it the movie has a sense of "been there, done that" about it... but not very often are movies of this type done with this kind of skill and dedication... spy movies haven't been this cool since the '60s.

Bourne (Matt Damon) on holidays with his girlfriend (Franca Potente) in Goa are interrupted by a nasty killer (Karl Urban). Jason Bourne will have to return Berlin to solve two murders that he's framed . Jason will confront Cia chiefs (Joan Allen and Brian Cox) and he's only helped by a beautiful agent (Julia Stiles).In the film there are shootouts , emotion , suspense ,thrills , driving car pursuits and from start to finish the noisy action is unstoppable. The movie is longtime , two hours and some , though is neither tiring, nor boring , but entertaining ; it's fast-moving and packs a lot of bemusement.
Matt Damon interpretation is excellent as a hard and strong spy without identity . The ¨contender¨ Joan Allen is perfect as a cold Cia principal , as well as Brian Cox , and Franca Potente has a little role and she scarcely plays.The picture bears remarkable resemblance to first installment , as action as storyline . Adequate cinematography by Oliver Wood in semi-documentary style and steadicam and there are several locations : Naples , London ,Moscow ,New York . Unlike The Bourne Identity: Bourne case (2002), screenwriter Tony Gilroy read the book this time and claimed that he did a re-imagination, not an adaptation, of the novel. Gilroy wrote an original script using key elements and roles from the novel as a framework, though he replaced the traditional Carlos The Jackal-type villainous with Kirill. 
The motion picture was well directed by Paul Greengrass ,though it has likeness to the first entry . Producer Frank Marshall selected Paul Greengrass as director after he'd seen Paul's Bloody Sunday (2002). Marshall was after a filmaker who wasn't intrinsically associated with the action genre, feeling that Greengrass would impart an original spin of his own to the screenplay . Greengrass became a great director of action and thriller movies, such as United 93 , Green Zone , Captain Phillips , 22 july . Followed by Bourne Ultimatum , 2006 , with Julia Stiles , David Strathairn Scott Glenn , Paddy Considine , and Jason Bourne 2016 with Matt Damon , Alicia Vikander ,Tommy Lee Jones , Vincent Cassel .The movie will appeal to thriller fans and suspense lovers . Rating:6,5/10 Good.

This is a superior action film with the added bonus of good acting by Joan Allen, Matt Damon, and Karl Urban among others. The camera work is amazing.I especially liked the on-locale settings of Russia and Germany.Jason Bourne is a walking CIA specimen whom the agency deems to dangerous to live. Not all the facts are known about some mysterious murders in Berlin but Jason Bourne is suspected. You know his idyllic life on a remote island will be blown from the first.How this all is resolved takes the viewer on a non-stop chase through various foreign countries. Good flick!

If you haven't seen "The Bourne Identity" then you absolutely should and you should do it before reading this review."The Bourne Supremacy" tries very hard to be Bourne again but it doesn't quite succeed for a number of reasons. The soul of the first film was in the relationship between Bourne and Marie (Franka Potente) and the strong action sequences. The sequel has no such relationship and the action scenes though bigger are horrendously filmed with constant shaky cam that often makes it hard to know exactly what is happening. The bad guys are slightly more nuanced but have very poor motivations for their actions.In the end it is only our sympathies for Jason Bourne that saves it from being a disaster.