While this movie is not going to be a masterpiece and held up in the future as an example of "great" film making, it was, in my opinion, a well made, albeit predictable, movie.I did appreciate the storyline was a bit of a formula, but it had enough in the sub plots to keep me interested all the way through.I got what I expected and a little more from the lead characters, but was a little disappointed in the performance of Jack Black. I am a fan of Jack, but am seeing a lot of the same from him in his facial contortions. Even so the character was "lovable"! The real surprise for me was the whole "Arthur Abbott" (Eli Wallach) sub plot. It was delightful and saved the show from the malaise that plagues the romantic comedy, that being predictability.I am not a romantic comedy type of guy, yet I was sucked into this movie well and truly.As I left, I felt like I had been treated as a human being. I had not been assaulted by the violence, overt sexual references, gunfire and the explosions that seem to be everywhere. (Not that I don't like a good "shoot the baddies" or "indecent suggestive action" type of movie). This was just good clean "fun"! And I would see it again (next year maybe!)

Iris Simpkins (Kate Winslet) is a pushover for her ex (Rufus Sewell) and she's blindsided by his engagement. Amanda Woods (Cameron Diaz) is tired of her cheating boyfriend (Edward Burns) and leaves her LA life for a few weeks. They use a vacation website to chat up a home exchange. During their vacation, they each fall for their own local guys.It's a double rom-com. Jack Black is trying to be a romantic lead. He and Winslet make an odd couple. She's absolutely charming. He's not himself, and Eli Wallach is better as the lead. Jude Law is a more conventional choice for a leading man. He and Diaz work well together.It's an unabashed chick flick. It does exactly what you expect it to do. It just does it twice. It explains the running time of over 2 hours. It's kinda corny and kinda formulaic, but it has its heart in the right place.

Well I have to confess I was dreading seeing this film, but actually I loved it.The story is quite fantastical. But once you can go along with the ridiculous plot, it is very funny and totally charming. It's a bit like eating liquid chocolate, and somehow manages to last for 2 hours and 10 minutes without you feeling sick.At the start of the film, the acting is very hammy, but this removes your desire for believability enough to carry the film. Cameron Diaz and Jude Law look absolutely lovely. Kate Winslett really pulls off her comedic role brilliantly. The are some beautiful touching moments about Hollywood history and a couple of famous faces appear in cameo roles. The English countryside is lovely. Lots of laughter and tears in the audience.The nutritional value of chocolate is limited. This film will uplift you though if nothing else. Excellent Christmas movie (from a bloke!).

This somewhat odd but distinctly likable film involves two women, one in L.A. and one in London, both unhappy in love, who switch homes to shake up their lives.The movie is often funny and sometimes touching, with solid performances from all. Perhaps the biggest issue is the absence of chemistry between Kate Winslet and Jack Black, which gives the movie a false note that could have been avoided if it wasn't so determined to follow the standard romantic comedy path. Winslet has much better chemistry with Eli Wallach, wonderful as an aged scriptwriter.One interesting thing to note is Jude Law, whose handsome, empathetic, nurturing, understanding character could best be described as lady porn, plays the sort of role usually played by a woman: the perfect person, wonderful in every way, whose main role in the story is to allow the main character to transition to a new phase in their life.It's not a great movie, and I don't love the structure, which simply involves cutting back and forth between two unrelated stories, but it's a nice feel-good chick flick thing that is perfect for days you don't want your brain to work too hard.

Although this isn't my typical pick on movies I'd love to see, I have to say I enjoyed screening this one. The run time is a bit long, and the movie gets a bit soft in the middle, but considering you're actually watching two love stories (as opposed to one), I guess the run time is justified. It still seemed a bit forced to get the story told in a descent amount of time (still over two hours). The performances were moderate to good, with exception of Jude Law as Graham, who was wonderful.If you're tired of holiday films that are so stacked with so much Christmas cheer that it makes you sick, this is the perfect alternative. Light enough for some serious laughs, and with enough drama to keep it interesting to audiences, this one's a good date movie. Leave the kids with a sitter. There are a few adult themes that could be uncomfortable to try to explain to a younger one.

THE HOLIDAY was one of the biggest surprises I've had at the movies in years. This fresh and funny comedy stars Cameron Diaz as Amanda, the owner of a company that makes movie trailers, who has just dumped her cheating boyfriend (Edward Burns)and decides she needs to get out of LA for awhile. She goes to a real estate website and chats with Iris (Kate Winslet), a lonely publishing employee who lives in England, who has just learned the man she's in love with is engaged. Amanda and Iris agree to exchange homes over the Christmas holiday. Iris arrives in LA and strikes up a friendship with Amanda's neighbor, a retired screenwriter (Eli Wallach) and Amanda's ex's best friend (Jack Black ). Amanda lands in London and finds herself in a whirlwind romance with Iris' bother (Jude Law), a sexy charmer with baggage. As silly and predictable as this film appears on the surface, it is just the opposite...cleverly written and performed with exuberance and sincerity. Diaz' performance is kind of all over the place and kind of hard to latch onto but Law has rarely been more appealing on screen and Jack Black shows solid leading man potential without losing that goofiness that we love about him, but it is the luminous performance of Kate Winslet that raises the bar on this one...Winslet's Iris is a delicious combination of vulnerability, sweetness, and silliness that makes this film well worth sitting through. Wallach is also a delight as the old gentleman brought out of his shell by Iris. A delight from start to finish.

This is probably my all-time favourite Christmas movie. I actually watch it every year!What's not to love? Wonderful actors, a heart-warming script, beautiful connections/chemistry throughout the movie and a depth in characters you rarely see anymore in the "Christmas-feelgood-romance" kind of movies. Oh and such a fun soundtrack, I really enjoy that too.Eli Wallach (RIP) is just charming and a reminder that good actors can make a simple storyline a film you want to watch again and again. Just beautiful!

The Holiday (2006) is an out of the ballpark smash hit! I thought about it after seeing it and just seriously could find NO fault whatsoever. This is such a feel good, cute, romantic, and sweet film. And it's not one of those stupid run of the mill romance movies, it actually has depth and is well made. Kate Winslet and Cameron Diaz are two women recently out of relationships with men, and pretty fed up with life in general, so they decide to go on vacation. They switch houses, Cameron goes to stay in England in Kate's house, and Kate goes to Los Angeles to stay in Cameron's house. The plot in and of itself is interesting and draws you in to keep watching. The script is well written and original, with little sparks of comedy thrown in where needed. And then there are scenes where we get to know our characters, usually through deep conversations with them and other characters. There definitely are NOT cardboard cut out one dimensional characters here, they are characters with real life issues, true depth, and interesting backgrounds. The romance and chemistry between the couples is great! It's truly eclectic and comes so wonderfully natural. I also love the side plot between Kate Winslet and the older screenwriter next door neighbor, it's so undeniably cute and so sweet, it's just endearing, I actually cried during the scene where he is honored at that ceremony! 10/10 for The Holiday! It's so well deserved!

With Nancy Myers' films, you know that everything will be fine in the end. Sometimes I need such trivial stories and I don't care how believable they are. Especially when Kate Winslet shows up, I feel good right away because I think she's one of the top 5 actresses of the last 20 years. She plays her role in a correspondingly differentiated way, sometimes with a little too much verve, whereas Cameron Diaz falls down considerably, even if she is so likeable that you quickly forgive her for it. In addition to Jack Black's renewed attempt to play a serious role without any antics - which he once again fails to do - Jude Law makes for a clear 2:0 in the Brits versus Yanks comparison. He plays the mischievous father of two adorable little girls so charmingly that you can't help but be thrilled by his first appearance. So Nancy Myers - with a few clever cameo appearances - doesn't light a comedy fire, but a thoroughly likeable story with lots of artificial snow and an Eli Wallach in a great supporting role that goes straight to the heart. All's well that ends well.

(Synopsis) Two beautiful women, Amanda Woods (Cameron Diaz) and Iris Simpkins (Kate Winslet) both find themselves at the end of failed relationships just before Christmas. Amanda decides to take a two week vacation and surfs the internet. She meets Iris online, and they agree to swap their homes for the holidays. Amanda lives in Los Angles and Iris lives in the countryside of Surrey, England. Even though they now have a change of scenery and want no contact with men, they are both still depressed and lonely. But things are about to change when Iris' brother Graham (Jude Law) drops by Iris' house and meets Amanda. On the other side of the world, Iris meets Miles (Jack Black) a film composer. Romance is in the air and sparks are about to fly.(My Comment) If you want to see a romantic comedy with real chemistry, especially between Cameron Diaz and Jude Law this is one chick flick you must see. This movie is a good date movie that is actually entertaining and sweet. You are actually seeing two love stories instead of one. There is a great subplot of the friendship between Kate Winslet and Eli Wallach's character that will touch your heart. Actually, I enjoyed that part of the movie the best. Overall, the movie was enjoyable to watch with touching and funny scenes throughout the movie. The ending is predictable, but what do you expect, it is a romantic comedy. You will leave the movie feeling good, and isn't that what movies are all about. (Columbia Pictures, Run time 2:18, Rated PG-13)(8/10)