When Oz's (Matthew Perry) new wife Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge) is captured by the mob, he is no one else to turn to but his old friend Jimmy the Tulip (Bruce Willis). Teaming up with Jimmy and his new wife (Amanda Peat), Oz experiences another crime filled adventure with the mob.Although not nearly as funny or as exciting as the original, The Whole Ten yards will surely entertainfor the most part. About half of the movie is clever and entertaining and would have deserved my recommendation, but the twist at the end is terrible and made the movie seem worthless. After the twist, follows a ridiculous display of events that are horrible, making the movie in my opinion a failure but still not absolutely terrible. Overall, the movie follows in the footsteps of an entertaining comedy but falls short of what could have been.I do not recommend this film.

As a sequel to The Whole Nine Yards, this film was a disappointment. Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry reunite as the retired Mafia Hit-man and the nervy dentist, as does Amanda Peet as the aspiring hit woman. The thing is this time around the acting wasn't that great. Willis is usually good with comic timing but it isn't there here, while Peet looks bored. Only Perry really stands out, his slapstick schtick makes me want to watch an episode of Friends pretty much.The film is stylishly shot, and has a good soundtrack, and there is evidence of some solid pacing. However, the plot is very contrived, the direction haphazard and the script weak. So overall, this film was a disappointment, it wasn't completely awful but I would be lying if I said it was great. 4/10 Bethany Cox

Jimmy The Tulip Tudeski (Bruce Willis) is hiding in Mexico and spending his days as a homemaker. Jill (Amanda Peet) is itching to kill and can't take their lives together. Crazed mob boss Lazlo Gogolak (Kevin Pollak) has just been released from prison. He comes looking to kill the paranoid Oz Oseransky (Matthew Perry) and find where Jimmy is to avenge for killing his son Janni. Lazlo kidnaps Oz's newly pregnant wife Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge). Oz goes to Mexico to beg Jimmy and Jill to rescue Cynthia from Lazlo. Jimmy doesn't want to help but Lazlo comes shooting anyways.I found Kevin Pollak not funny and very annoying. It lost the very limited charm of the original. It tries so hard to be wacky that it stumbles into an unwatchable mess. Everybody is trying to out-crazy the other. More than anyone, the jittery Matthew Perry personifies the overacting that is happening here. Amanda Peet is also jittery taking a page out of Perry's playbook. Even Bruce Willis is going crazy. It's too much and worst of all it's not funny.

An unnecessary sequel if there ever was one finds bumbling dentist Oz (Perry) now happily married to Cynthia (Henstridge), until she's kidnapped by vengeful mobster Lazlo Gogolák (Pollak) and his Hungarian crew who know that former associate Jimmy Tudeski (Willis) is still alive. Not capable of getting her back by himself, Oz enlists the aid of Jimmy and wife Jill (Peet); she's just itching to get back into the game, but unfortunately Jimmy has put the old life behind him in favor of staying at home and obsessing over the cleanliness of his surroundings. The same cast that brought such glee and energy to The Whole Nine Yards flounders in this embarrassingly unfunny follow-up where the film's ridiculous story throws out one silly plot twist after another and an abundance of desperate gags. A feeling of utter hopelessness permeates each scene, and at times the actors appear as if they're begging for help. *

Absolutely terrible. Unbelievably bad. Not the least bit funny. Moronic, extremely lame jokes, terrible acting, no plot at all worth mentioning, a perfect example of the decline of Hollywood films. After 10 minutes you will be pulling out your hair. The lines are so bad Ernest wouldn't have used them.The first movie (Whole 9 Yards) was witty, humorous, and surprisingly good. Everything worked. Perry was particularly effective as the bumbling dentist whose wife is out to get him. Willis was great as a serious hit-man who doesn't want to be sequestered away in Canada. And both Peet and Henstridge were effective in their roles as an enthusiastic yet green hit-woman, and a mobster's wife (respectively). But this movie??? It had none of that. There was not a single memorable moment, nor anything that would even evoke a chuckle. The physical comedy was very forced, and incredibly obvious. The jokes were just plain terrible. There was no direction, this movie meandered all over the place. The whole bit with Willis pretending he liked to keep house? That was simply idiotic.This movie was so bad it makes Charlies Angel's 2 look like a masterpiece, and that is really an impressive feat. It is hard to imagine how after the first one which was such an effective comedy, the same team could churn out this complete and utter crap. It boggles the imagination. It is actually hard to think of worst sequels, or at least ones that were so much more terribly bad than the original actually good film (if both stink, that doesn't count); CA2 is the best example I can think of but then again the first one was nothing to write home about. How about Jaws 4? Friday the 13th 27? I really can't think of a more disappointing film, particularly after the promise of the first 9 Yards.Terrible, absolutely terrible. Should be retitled "The 3 stooges get Lazlo", except that would be an insult to the stooges. My advice? Rent the first one and pretend this one was never made.

The Hungarian mobster Lazlo (Kevin Pollak) is released from the penitentiary after serving his sentence. He kidnaps Cynthia (Natasha Henstridge), the wife of the dentist Oz (Matthew Perry), trying to reach Jimmy (Bruce Willis), who is calmly living in Mexico with his wife Jill (Amanda Peet). I liked this sequel of "The Whole Nine Yards": I found it very funny, I laughed a lot and I found this movie very underrated in IMDb. The chemistry among the wonderful cast works perfectly, highlighting the scenes with Matthew Perry, who is one of the best comedians of the cinema industry. In the end, "The Whole Ten Yards" is a great comedy without having any further pretension. It is recommended to see "The Whole Nine Yards" before watching this sequel, since there are many references to situations in the first movie. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): This DVD has not been released in Brazil yet.

Rent it, buy it, just to see the classic comic performances, timing, and natural talent of Perry. Really, this guy's reactions to all things nerve wracking had me on the floor. Watch carefully as you put yourself into HIS shoes while watching this movie...hard to identify with a contract killer, played ably by Bruce Willis. Bruce is the straight man and does his part, while the role reversal in the opening scenes is a natural scream.I felt technically there were a couple of problems to nit pick in the direction and editing areas. Some of the comedy bits were OVER played and lasted too long...not the actor's faults...that is editing or direction. The actors did a marvelous job. But, heavy talent, and a VERY funny script must be seen. Pollak overdid Lazlo...the heavy overdone accent clipped out a lot of funny lines for me, and the closed captioning was not working correctly. I think Pollak could have been much more effective, funny, and convincing in his part if he did not add the Jerry Lewis overacting style to the part. It detracted from what was and is a VERY funny script, excellent acting by ALL the rest of the cast, and a great job by the director of photography and most of the crew.How funny is a contract killer as an obsessive compulsive cook and homemaker? Very! How great was Mat Perry in the part of a good "Joe" all American who has to deal with dangerous underworld people...? Hysterical. Gagging and sucking for air on the floor pleading for mercy funny. Really funny. Love to see more good scripts for Perry.

This movie has gotten hammered IMDB review-wise (it gets better reviews on Netflix).  I am not sure why. I tend to be critical of comedies, but I thought this movie was okay, on par with the first one.  There were a lot of genuinely funny moments.  It was not a great movie, but if you are in the mood for a comedy, I would not be afraid to rent this one.  Bruce Willis did his usual fine job.  I laughed out loud more than once.  The guy who played to godfather type was funny too.  Mathew Perry was about the same as in the first movie.  The two female leads were not as developed, but seemed okay. The one who played Perry's wife was perhaps a little too pretty for the part, but seemed to be an okay actress.

I did a double feature of the first movie and this one. And the best thing about the movie (apart from seeing the actors returning to their characters) is the title. There are some funny moments throughout, don't get me wrong. But it's more misses than hits (no pun intended - though if you watch the movie, you will see a lot of literal misses - by bullets). The movie overall seems to be way more tame, way more reliant on humor, without consequences. And way more infantile (farting jokes can work, though I am not always a fan of them ... here I am quite sure, many will agree they didn't work at all ... even with really good actors trying their best to convey the humor of the situation). So be prepared to not be as amazed by this then you were with the first one ...

I guess I am from the very few people who didn't enjoy the first one. Too complicated , too much overacting, a little silly story and personally I didn't like it. Now the sequel is something different. It is something what the first should have been or at least for me. Entertaining and nothing else. Not too much of a story. Funny and colorful and kinda unusual characters make you laugh like Matthew Perry's character who as I know had just finished with Friends and had an opportunity to improvise. He also has better lines and better character development in this one. Bruce Willis's character Jimmy is also funnier and I have to point that Pollack and Peet are some nice bonus characters to the movie. It has some action as well.I didn't have high expectation and that is why I liked it. Kinda underrated sequel which I happened to like and enjoy. 7/10

The biggest question is not why this movie was made, but why Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry wanted to do it. I'll take it as a sign that the two talented actors were having trouble getting interesting screenplays to their desks. It's no secret that second-rate director Howard Deutch is notoriously picking up sequels, and rarely good ones. Neither does he have the ability to make them into interesting motion pictures, but with this film it has to be said to his defence that the original material wasn't worth bragging about. The Whole Nine Yards was a rather dumb film, and the sequel follows in its footsteps.Kevin Pollak gets my only thumb up in this movie. He is funny in a simple role, but that's about it. Most of all it is painful to see Bruce Willis and, particularly, Matthew Perry in this film. Willis can handle bad material pretty well, and doesn't make a complete idiot of himself, but I don't think I could pick out many actors who suffer more from bad material than Matthew Perry. He really needs to get some fresh ideas, because the once fantastic comedian (watch early seasons of Friends) is drying up. And Howard Deutch certainly isn't the man to come to for new ideas.