In The Gift, Cate Blanchett is blessed(or cursed?) with the ability to sense things that no ordinary person can see.  She is asked by the police to aid in the search of a missing person and what follows, is a journey into the supernatural.  Sam Raimi knows how to set up a scene for the maximum scare potential.  Honed on his Evil Dead series, Raimi lets a scene begin slowly and allows the viewer to sense the dread and feel the suspense build.  There are visual tricks, interesting camera techniques and the fine performances by a very talented cast that propel this story forward.  Among this cast that really stands out is Keanu Reeves. People have always complained that Reeves brings down a movie.  At least some of the people I know.  I prefer to think that Reeves is an underrated actor.  In the role of Donny Barksdale, Reeves brings a certain menace to his character that usually isn't scene in his other roles. Barksdale isn't a creature of the night, or a space alien, but a flesh and blood creature that is capable of true evil.  When you watch him, look at his eyes and you'll see a true menace lurking behind those dark brown eyes. Cate Blanchett shows that she can master just about any accent that's out there.  She sounds like she's a native of the south and she has a quiet courage about her.  Most notable when she's squaring off against Reeves.  All in all, The Gift is a wonderfully atmospheric thriller.  It has brains and doesn't insult the viewers.  It will keep you hooked up until the very end, and there are quite a few surprises throughout the film.  Highly entertaining, and very spooky at times.

Having seen this film several times and never remembering the composer of the score, I decided to look it up at IMDb. While here, I decided to check out the various user reviews. And I was kind of surprised at the "love it or hate it" division.I'm mainly surprised that anyone thought it was "typical" Hollywood pap or that it was slow moving, labored or simply so-so.Maybe you just have to like Sam Raimi to enjoy this. I couldn't help but appreciate the fact the style and many elements were a lot like "Evil Dead 1 & 2", but more subtle and refined. Sam obviously made the most of the camera angles, scenery and lighting for specific reasons...the general "darkness" of the town versus the "light" surrounding Cate(the only one who could see the truth).Maybe some didn't see a lot of the dark humor or appreciate the fine acting with non-stereotypical southern accents by all, especially Cate.This is a film well worth repeated viewings.

Delicious combination murder-mystery and character portrait set in the present-day South. Widowed mother of three, who works from home as a psychic and card reader, is pulled against her will into the logistics of a popular local girl's disappearance. Although the brutality inherent in the script is laid on with a trowel by director Sam Raimi, "The Gift", written by Billy Bob Thornton and Tom Epperson, has some mesmerizing attributes, not the least of which is Cate Blanchett's luminous performance in the lead. The actress is sensational here; whether hesitantly giving out advice to her regulars, sympathizing with troubled mechanic Giovanni Ribisi or standing up to a surprisingly menacing Keanu Reeves, Blanchett is absolutely riveting. The plot is intricately unwound with occasionally outrageous details. It ends up being quite satisfying.

Jessica King (Katie Holmes), the fiancée of Wayne Collins (Greg Kinnear), has gone missing. Annabelle Wilson (Cate Blanchett) is the local psychic who has visions of Jessica King. Following her advise, Sheriff Pearl Johnson (J.K. Simmons) dredges the swamp and finds Jessica's body. Donnie Barksdale (Keanu Reeves) is jailed for the murder. However, Annabelle keeps getting visions. There's more to the murder.Director Sam Raimi has teamed up with Billy Bob Thornton once again and this time as a writer. Cate Blanchett is terrific. There is an overload of big time actors. I almost wish that some of the lesser roles get played by smaller unknown actors. When it's overloaded like this, the movie can feel very Hollywood. However Blanchett never once feels fake in any way. She becomes the character with ease.

Firstly I need to say this isn't a horror. It's a thriller. Also it's not a fantasy movie so both of those tags should be ignored.That doesn't mean it isn't a good movie. What's particularly good is how some of the actors play roles that ho against their usual character types.Without a doubt Giovanni Ribissi steals the movie and plays his part perfectly.Recommended.

In a small town deep in the South, a single mother endowed with a special ability becomes involved with the disappearance of a young woman and has a brush with the supernatural, in `The Gift,' directed by Sam Raimi.  Cate Blanchett stars as Annie Wilson, a young widow attempting to raise her three kids and provide a decent life for her family, scraping out a living on Social Security since the tragic death of her husband in a work related accident the previous year.  She supplements her meager income by doing `readings' for the local townsfolk, accepting their donations for the insights she offers them into their own lives.  Annie has a `gift,' the ability to see certain things in the cards that enables her to advise her clients about personal issues.  It's something she can't explain; she knows only that it's inherited (which she learned from her grandmother), and that it's real.  And though it's helped her maintain her home, she soon finds that it doesn't always make for the most pleasant of situations, as when she must advise a young woman, Valerie Barksdale (Hilary Swank), on how to cope with her abusive husband, Donnie (Keanu Reeves), or attempt to help a troubled young man, Buddy Cole (Giovanni Ribisi) come to terms with some sensitive aspects of his life.  Then, when a client comes to her to ask for help when his daughter disappears, not only does it take her to the dark side of the human experience, she discovers that certain individuals, including local sheriff Pearl Johnson (J.K. Simmons) do not believe that her `gift' is real.Stylistically crafted and delivered, Raimi's film will keep you engrossed and on the edge of your seat until the very end.  He successfully blends reality with just a touch of the supernatural that makes for riveting suspense while keeping it within the realm of believability.  The relationship played out between Donnie and Valerie is anything but unique-- you've seen this before, many times in many films-- but within the context of this story it's fresh and it works.  The doubtful sheriff and the cynical, jaded defense attorney, Gerald Weems (Michael Jeter), are fairly stereotypical, but that can be easily overlooked in light of the overall story and especially due to the credibility of the Annie character, which is well developed and never presented as anything beyond what can be readily accepted as true to life.  As the central character, Annie anchors the film and enables the circumstances in which she is involved to be perceived as real; it's the strength of the film, and it's what makes it all work so well.What also makes it work is the strong performance by Cate Blanchett, who makes Annie so real and accessible, displaying her `gift' with restraint and avoiding the possible pitfall of taking it too far over the edge, which could easily have made it suspect.  Instead, she brings a depth to the character that draws you into her world and allows you to empathize with her, which would have been impossible had she invested Annie with even a touch of the charlatan.  With consummate skill, Blanchett creates a well rounded character which demonstrates that as an actor, she definitely has a very real `gift' of her own.Ribisi also does a memorable turn as Buddy, with a striking performance in which he creates some disturbing moments that are almost painful to watch; his is a character study of a soul in distress, seeking solace and resolution, and even as he attempts to sort out his life, you are able to sympathize with his plight as you share Buddy's experiences.  And it's through Buddy (as well as Annie, of course), that the audience is able to make that necessary and very real connection with the film.  With films like `Saving Private Ryan' and now this one, Ribisi is on his way to establishing himself as one of the premiere character actors in the business today.Playing somewhat against type, Reeves proves that he can be a good `bad' guy, giving possibly one of his best performances ever as Donnie.  He very credibly conveys that sense of explosiveness lying just beneath the surface that makes his character menacing and dark, which in turn makes Donnie psychologically as well as physically threatening.  It's a good job by Reeves, who deserves credit for taking on a role that is so disagreeable and insensitive.The supporting cast includes Greg Kinnear (Wayne), Katie Holmes (Jessica), Kim Dickens (Linda), Gary Cole (David) and Rosemary Harris (Annie's Granny). A taut thriller that is emotionally involving, `The Gift' delivers what it promises early on, which is exceptional, as many films of this nature often fail to actually follow through after a tremendous opening act.  Rest assured, this one does and has it all; suspense, credibility and some memorable moments, all courtesy of Raimi, a good story and a superb cast. And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 9/10.

Fantastic performances by Cate Blanchett and Giovanni Ribisi. This is the first time I see either of them, so I can't compare their performance to any of their pervious roles. The other members of the cast give a good performance as well. Katie Holmes' much talked-about topless scene is definitely with taste and I don't think it was put there to draw the younger audience to see the movie. However, I do feel it wasn't vital, and the story would have stayed intact without it. Danny Elfman gives what seems to be the shortest cameo in cinema ever. As my favorite composer/musician I was looking forward to his cameo and expected it to be a speaking part and a bit longer. Nonetheless, he did a good job. I don't know why he was so hard on himself with the outcome. (BTW, did he remind you of Beetlejuice too?) Sam Raimi did a great job. He made the characters highly believable, and brought out a very realistic performance from the cast - notably the violent scene in which Donnie Barksdale (Keanu Reeves) breaks into Annie's home and drags his wife (Hilary Swank) out, while Annie is chasing them and slip on the paint. The first half of the movie is fascinating. However, it is the second half - which suppose to be suspenseful and more interesting than the first - that I found quite weak. Perhaps it was because I knew who the killer was; perhaps it was because the overall feeling was that after all there isn't much suspense, that the details given before don't contribute a lot, other than to try to confuse the viewer a bit, and that at the end it's just a very simple story, which can be summed up in one sentence; And finally, perhaps it was because some of the characters were highly detailed, while others (such as the murdered woman herself) were very low on details and almost absent. * MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD * Several things that disturbed me the most were before and during the trial. First, why would it be so bad for the prosecution that a Psychic had told the police where to find the body - does it matter WHY they came to look for the body at the lake? The facts stayed the same - none of them was based on a "Psychic evidence". Also, while Annie was on the stand, I felt that it was only reasonable for the prosecutor to say "Objection. The witness is not the defendant here!". Another thing was Donnie Barksdale on the stand. A wife-beating redneck that suddenly becomes a lamb, confessing (in court!) of beating up his wife and realizing he's a "bad guy" doing unchristian things. The beatings are also taken as granted a few scenes earlier, when Donnie beats up Annie in front of a surprisingly indifferent Sheriff. * END OF SPOILERS * Overall, I think the story is the weakest point in the film. If it was for the first part alone, I'd give the movie a 7/10, but at the end I felt quite disappointed, which brings it to a 6/10. Good score by Chris Young.

I always said that Keanu Reeves was not that good of an actor but I still always have liked him. That was until I finally saw this movie for the first time 5 minutes ago. Keanu was amazing, best he has ever been. I also always say that Hillary Swank was God awful and that I have never liked her. Until I saw her in this movie, she was awesome, too. They were all awesome. This movie was nothing less than pure 100% genius. I had no idea Billy Bob Thorton was part writer on this which also explains why it is so damn good. Everyone in this movie showed their acting abilities. Even the kids were great, even the dog was great. This is how much I enjoyed this movie. If you like a murder mystery than check this flick out. You won't be sorry!!

Sam Raimi has a bit of folklore to him, at least in t horror movie circles. His story with Evil Dead is one that tells us that if you really believe in what you are doing and have an undeniable passion for it, you can succeed with an indie.  Evil Dead was that film for Raimi.  Now that he has bigger budgets and better casts, one could expect him to fail, but with terrific films like A Simple Plan and now this one, he proves that he does possess a gift as a film maker.  The Gift takes him back to his roots as a horror director and he doesn't disappoint.  The Gift is a tight, tense film with some questionable weakly written court room scenes, but take that away and you have a very effective thriller.The Gift has an all star ensemble cast that takes everything they are given and shines with it.  Cate Blanchet is awesome to watch as the small town clairvoyant that some people look upon with utter reverance and others disregard as nothing more than a Satan worshipper.  Keanu Reeves is very effective as a wife abusing husband and Hilary Swank, Katie Holmes, Greg Kinnear, Giovanni Ribisi and Gary Cole are all very good in their roles. I especially liked Reeves as the wicked wife beater.  I grew to hate his character and not just because he was a wife beater, but because he was such a smug, "I'm above the law" wife beater.  I like seeing the smaller and perhaps more challenging roles Reeves is taking in between his billion dollar turn as Neo.When a local town aristocratic beauty disappears, all fingers point towards Reeves as the murderer.  He was having an affair with the girl, he has a violent temper, and he has scratch marks all over him from her and most importantly she was found dead in his swamp on his property.  That is pretty compelling evidence against him.  Also, Annie, the clairvoyant had visions about her whereabouts being located on his property.  But soon after his impending incarceration, Annie begins to have other thoughts.  She thinks the wrong man has been put away and now she fears that the real killer is going to come after her.What The Gift benefits from, besides great performances, is tight direction. Raimi shows us here why it is that he got his start as a horror director. There are at least half a dozen scenes that are tense and frightening. When Annie is having her visions of death and sees dead women in trees and in bathtubs and such, there are collective gasps of fear in the audience. And when she is visited by ghosts or visions of people, you feel the heart race a little faster.  This is not to say that the film is flawless because it's not.  The flaws come from the writing of the court case where there is so much heresay and such that any good lawyer would have jumped all over the defense's case.  When a man is being tried for murder and your defense is questioning how you came to know where the body was, they are two different issues.  Why does it matter if an elephant told you where the body was or if you happened to fish it out of the pond with a crane.  The point is that the body was there and it was on the accused's property and the accused had scratch marks on his arm from the deceased.  That in my book is a pretty simple case.  I was disappointed with how Thorton wrote the court room scenes but that is about all I was disappointed with.The Gift is not one of the best horror films I've ever seen, but it is an enjoyable one and if I had to compare it to another similar one to it, I would have to say that this was better than What Lies Beneath.  I think Zemekis is a great director but Raimi just has that certain intangible quality about him.  He can make suspense out of something when perhaps there is none there.  This is worth seeing and if you are a horror fan or just like a few thrills in your film, this'll keep you entertained.8 out of 10- a good creepy horror film with a few genuine scares and a plethora of great performances.

Anyone who loves a good slice of southern Gothic murder mystery should check out Sam Raimi's The Gift, one of several films in the eclectic scoundrel's ouvre which made a departure from his usual brand of chaotic horror. Cate Blanchett stars as Annabelle, a single mother with a very perceptive telepathic ability, which in rural USA is greeted without any skepticism by the locals. She is renowned for her gift, and often approached by people in need. The story sees her trying to locate young Jessica (Katie Holmes), who has gone missing, and discovering some nasty secrets about the people around her in the process, people she thought she knew better. Jessica's fiancé (Greg Kinnear) is desperate but clearly knows something he's not saying. Also involved is battered housewife Valerie (Hilary Swank), her terrifying abusive boyfriend Donnie (Keanu Reeves), a local mechanic (Giovanni Ribisi) who befriends Annabelle, and others. It's an ugly tale contrasted by Blanchett's striking beauty, which the cameras capture in all the right instances. She could be rearranging a bookshelf and still be compelling and elegant, and always is in whichever role she takes on. Reeves is a scary tornado of pent up rage and sickness, cast way against type and loving every rage fuelled second. As if the main cast wasn't packed enough with talent, we also get stellar work from Gary Cole, Michael Jeter, Kim Dickens, Rosemary Harris, a random cameo from Danny Elfman and a sly turn from J.K. Simmons as the county sheriff. What a cast, eh? Raimi puts them to good use, and each one gets their moment to shine. I've never seen a film by the director I haven't loved; the guy just makes super fun, accessible genre treats that are irresistibly likable. Pair that with the evocative southern tone and Blanchett's winning presence and you've got one hell of a little package. Very overlooked stuff.

An interesting story line and a fine cast make The Gift a good choice, if you want some mystery and suspense on your screen. A good good mix of drama, mystery, fantasy and a slight touch of horror.

Before his success with 'Sling Blade,' Billy Bob Thornton showcased his talent as one of the co-writers of 'The Gift.' What makes this supernatural thriller so captivating is its setting in the real modern-day Southern town of Brixton, Georgia. The film boasts a stellar cast, with Cate Blanchett delivering a standout performance as Annie Wilson, a woman known in town as a "psychic," although some derisively label her a "fortune teller." Annie, a widow raising three young sons after her husband's tragic death, uses her enhanced intuition to offer guidance and counsel to those who seek her help, supplementing her income from social security survivor benefits.The story takes a dramatic turn in the second act when Annie advises Valerie Barksdale (Hillary Swank), a victim of domestic abuse, to leave her abusive husband Donnie (a convincingly menacing Keanu Reeves). Donnie, representing the reactionary element of society, targets anyone different or considered an outsider, vilifying Annie and even resorting to his own brand of supernatural belief by using a voodoo doll to threaten her.Annie also assists Buddy Cole (Giovanni Ribisi), a gas station attendant suffering from mental illness due to childhood abuse by his father. However, as Annie becomes preoccupied with other events, she is forced to neglect Buddy, who tragically reaches a breaking point, tying up his father, dousing him in gasoline, and setting him on fire. Buddy's instability, caused by his history of childhood sexual abuse, is poignantly portrayed by the skillful screenplay.The plot further intensifies when Annie meets Wayne Collins (Greg Collins), the principal of one of her sons' school, following a fight at school. Although Wayne appears to be an upstanding citizen, his involvement with his promiscuous girlfriend Jessica King (Katie Holmes) raises suspicions. When Jessica goes missing and the police exhaust all leads, they turn to Annie for possible insights into her disappearance.J. K. Simmons delivers a perfect performance as Sheriff Peal Johnson, initially skeptical of Annie's psychic abilities but eventually convinced of their authenticity when she has visions of Jessica's murder and directs them to a pond on Donnie's property, where the body is found.Initially, Annie's intuition led her to believe that Donnie was an "insecure redneck" but not a murderer. Interestingly, when Donnie is arrested and stands trial for Jessica's murder, he candidly testifies to his infidelity and history of domestic violence. However, as circumstances turn against him and he is found guilty, he reverts to blaming Annie and labeling her as an agent of the devil.Given the circumstantial nature of the case against Donnie, it raises questions about whether he would have been convicted in real life. It's worth noting that Annie never claimed he was guilty; she only located the body through her dark visions. One can speculate that her personal antipathy toward Donnie clouded her intuition regarding his innocence.Eventually, Annie has visions suggesting Donnie's innocence, prompting her to request the District Attorney to reopen the case. To complicate matters further, Annie discovers that the DA was romantically involved with the murder victim, leveraging this information to demand a reopening of the investigation.'The Gift' delivers a wholly satisfying climax with a twist ending! It is revealed that the real murderer is Wayne, who lures Annie to the spot where Jessica's body was found. He wants to test Annie's psychic powers to see if she has identified him as the killer. As Wayne realizes that Annie is aware of his guilt, he is on the verge of murdering her, but is suddenly stopped by Buddy, who appears out of nowhere.At this point, the unlikely escape of Buddy from the mental hospital and his presence at the pond raises some doubts. Nevertheless, when Annie returns with an unconscious Wayne to the police, Buddy mysteriously disappears. The twist occurs when Sheriff Johnson reveals that Buddy couldn't have aided Annie because he had hanged himself hours earlier at the state mental hospital. One can only surmise that it was Buddy's spirit that assisted Annie in overpowering Wayne.Blanchett's excellent portrayal includes a convincing Southern accent, capturing the quiet dignity of a woman both admired and vilified in her hometown. Ribisi also shines in his role as the mentally ill Buddy. Despite the trial's implausibility, 'The Gift' remains highly entertaining, thanks to the masterful direction of Sam Raimi, who skillfully weaves all the elements together, complemented by an effective homespun musical score.In conclusion, 'The Gift' is a riveting supernatural thriller that keeps viewers engaged with its intriguing plot and outstanding performances. The film's atmospheric setting in a real Southern town adds authenticity to the story. While some aspects may stretch plausibility, the overall experience is highly entertaining and showcases the talents of its cast and director.

When I first watched this I thought nothing of it, but then I watched it a second time and actual enjoyed the film. The tone is very serious as this thriller takes you into a mystery murder scenario. The acting is what truly brings the film to light, Cate Blachett is at the heart of the movie, her facial expression, especially the emotions in her eyes, bring each scene to life. The other actors such as Giovanni Ribisi, Keanu Reeves, Hilary Swank and Greg Kinnear were also very good performances. The story and filming isn't an Oscer winner and it's not a movie I would call my favorite, but if you're looking for a thriller with some great familiar actors that will not disappoint then this is your film.

This is one if those gems that no one knows about but should, just look at the cast. Good luck trying to put that cast together now and written by billy bob Thornton and directed my an Underrated phenom director mr sam raimi!! Its not a horror in anyway not sure why it states that, it's a mystery, thriller drama. I could go on and on but simply put to yourself a HUGE favor watch it right now!!!

Just watched this for the first time, and maybe it was "great" 30 years ago, but it certainly isn't now! The cast itself actually is good/bordering on great, and the actors do their best with the material, but the material is the issue. The story itself is trite, the murder is easily solvable, and the "surprise" at the end made me actually laugh out loud (I'm assuming that was *not* the response the director hoped to elicit). Bonus points for Blanchett's "tarot cards" coming straight out of Ghostbusters, though (wish I could attach a pic, they're hilarious - not actual tarot cards, they're legit cards with pics of just squiggly lines, stars, circles etc).