The Ring was my favourite film of 2002, the best horror film I'd seen in ages, and I subsequently saw and enjoyed (with the exception of Ring 0 - What the hell was that?) all the Japanese films as well.So when I heard that the director of the original films was set to do the second "remake", it was suitably excited. Imagine what he could do with a bigger budget and better technology? It is however, not even close to the first, and such improvements don't surface (same CGI, C-list Hallmark Channel cast). It does manage to keep you nervous throughout, but the proper scares are too infrequent and it appears to take itself too seriously. This is all too evident when the creepiest kid in cinema is admitted to hospital and The Ring 2 turns into a child abuse drama for around twenty minutes, leaving you wondering when it'll pick up a bit again.It's also the kind of film that demands that you re-watch the first one before you go to see it; the opening makes no sense unless you've seen "Rings" on the Collectors Edition DVD, and there's a ton of stuff that may have easily been forgotten if you saw the film three years ago.It's alright; it's a horror sequel-remake thing, so you don't expect too much and you wont be disappointed, but you can't help but think it could have been done a bit better.

The movie trailers were promising. The premise was semi-promising. Oddly enough both the premise and the trailers were scarier than this sequel to The Ring. Yes, the original Japanese director returns and he conveys the images and symbolism very well, but he does not provide anything engaging here. The two movies do not seem to necessarily connect. It's almost as if they remade the first Ring with a few additions. There is not a lot of new material presented here. The movie tries to scare us by using either the same or similar events from the first. The ominous music playing throughout the film and the fact that this sequel was made so nonsensically are scarier than the movie itself. There are too many things that occur that you just have to accept without explanation. And then after the movie's done, you'll be left with plenty of questions including how the first one relates to this one. I cannot place some of those questions here without spoiling anything, so I'll leave that up to you. Okay, let's move away from the negative and talk about the few positives this film has. The acting is much better than the average horror film and, as stated before, the images are presented very well. The visuals are nice and you come to slightly care about some of the characters, although most of them do ridiculous things. Other than that, I cannot think of much else to say that is good. This movie was just disappointing. Do not watch this with high expectations unless you are easily scared and jump at the "sudden" music and scenes. The first Ring was good. It was different and well-made. I did not find it particularly scary, but bizarre. This just relies on music and jump surprises. Fear doesn't even come half circle in this film. If you liked the first Ring and expect to see much more about the story, you may be disappointed as well. But if you only want to see a different version of part one, then you may enjoy this sequel. Good luck =) 4.8/10 Stars

Unlike many of 'The Ring' fans, I didn't find this part so horrible. I loved the first movie and being a teen, I was totally into 'The Ring 2' as well. I have to agree it doesn't match expectations that the original made us hope for, but still it is a well made movie. 'The Ring' and 'The Sixth Sense' were the movies which played a huge part in making me a fan of the horror genre. The first film and The Sixth Sense gave me sleepless nights for weeks because of the way they were brilliantly executed and it may also have something to do with my being a teen when The Ring films released. Hideo Nakata took over this film from Gore Verbinski and that is where the treatment of the film changed quite a bit. He goes for a lot more gore and cgi effects than an actual story, it lost its spark there.Six months after the incidents involving the lethal videotape, Rachel Keller (Naomi Watts) wants to move away from the city into a quiet town with her son, Samara Morgan (Daveigh Chase) after the horrible deaths of her boyfriend and niece, and start over again. She had freed Samara from her earthly prison and now she is free to terrorize anyway she wants and doesn't have the restrictions that the previous film rules set. Now, Samara wants Aidan Keller's (David Dorfman) body so she could live normally again. She does all she can to get hold of his body without alerting Rachel. She even comes out of televisions to get hold of her victims. She is more evil than ever and it is upto Rachel to put an to all this mayhem.This movie is overloaded with cgi effects in scenes that is not exactly needed. Samara possesses hundreds of deers and stags in a forest. What's up with that? She couldn't control an animal in the last film. If so, she could have controlled the horses. But the horses killed themselves due to her evilness. And the water is replaced by a black emf emission, I think. That was more cheesy than scary because of so many effects. David Dorfman is not so creepy as Aidan in this film. In the first film, I was convinced he was the ghost. He creeped me out in the first one. This time around he gave an alright performance and didn't scare me at all, as he seemed more humane in this. My sympathetic view on Samara's plight was overcome with disgust in this one. Why does she want only Aidan? She could have any kid she wanted. And shouldn't she be thankful to Rachel for releasing her from her hellhole and go to heaven or something? I was very sad that Naomi Watts accepted this film, her story is not so good in this film. Still she gave a good performance. I still give this film a 7 rating because it creeped me out the first two times I saw it.7/10

I'm not a horror fan at all, but got invited to this screening and decided to go see what all the hoopla was about. What I got was an interesting piece which I might sooner qualify as a supernatural thriller than a horror movie (but I guess that's what J-horror movies are). Sure, it's quite gross in a couple of places and there are a few heart-stopping moments as well, but what really impressed me was that the entire movie, from the first minute to the last, is filled with this weird kind of suspenseful energy. Even when literally nothing particularly frightening in itself is going on, it still feels «off», it's still unsettling, uncomfortable, on edge. And that for me was the strength of this movie. Not having seen Hideo Nakata's previous Ringu movies, I was pleasantly surprised to find out that he seems to be a master of creating an atmosphere scarier than any special-effect driven sequence could. All the actors did a good job as well – and Sissy Spacek's cameo was a nice touch – though I would have liked to have seen a bit more background to the Max-Rachel relationship. All in all, I predict a good show at the box-office for this one!

I liked the first movie, and actually i liked this one two. It is not that bad as a lot of people say, but it is not as good as the first one. What I liked in the first movie, that it was horror movie, and along with that something like a detective movie, Rachel was looking for information about the events happening, and in this movie, there is less of this detective stuff. Second thing I didn't like is directing, or maybe not the directing itself, but (I'm not from English speaking country, and don't know a lot about the movie terms=) the picture, the colors and effects. My taste is a bit different, the picture (I mean everything you see on the screen) was a bit ad hoc, untidy. The effects are also not that good. Despite all these minuses, the movie is still quite interesting, and if you like "The Ring" and this story and the first movie is not enough, this is better than nothing.

I have seen quite a few horror films, but the Japanese style is fairly new to me. I admire how they can scare you without all the gore that is such a staple in recent American films. I thought the sequel, in spite of its' faults, was much better that the first. It seemed that too much of the first movie was devoted to her research. It did not get interesting until it was more than half over. Many horror/scary movies have a scene where you find yourself yelling at the screen,"Don't do that! Watch out!" This movie delivers from the beginning. In horror films, there are always things that don't make a lot of sense when you think about it. The rules that vampire movies follow change from movie to movie. How does Freddy Krueger manage to kill people while they are sleeping? How come Jason never dies? You have to suspend your sense of reasoning a bit in order to enjoy the movie.

The Ring Two starts off pretty much where The Ring left off. Rachel (Naomi Watts) and Aidan (David Dorfman) are starting over again after all the horrors of the first movie are, for the time being, finished. It is not long before some events, which are not so coincidental, start to occur. Rachel, as the new editor of a small town newspaper, listens to the police scanner to what may be the biggest story to ever hit this small town. It seems a teenager has been murdered with his girlfriend cowering in the basement, but that is not the strange thing. It is something about the murder victim's face! Rachel decides she has to see if the events are related to what she has just been through and goes to see the corpse. To her dismay, the face resembles those who have died before. This is how the story begins and the evil Samara begins to show her face again, after she finds Rachel.The Ring Two is not as mysterious as the first. That is easy to figure out, most of the questions were answered in the first, so it leaves more "meat and potatoes", so to speak, for the sequel. You get to see much more of Samara. Boy, does she look creepy crawling out of that well. You will see what I mean. This installment relies much more on imagery, such as the tree we all recognize from the first movie and who will ever be able to forget the instant classic scene with the reindeer or the moose (not sure what they were).The fact is, I never expect much with sequels so I was pleasantly surprised by this one. While it is not as good, or original as the first movie, it is no slouch and far better than the last horror movie I saw, Boogeyman. No comparison whatsoever. I give 8 of 10 stars.

The Ring Two joins the new breed of "Who-dun-it" mysteries... "Who-dun-it first". For example: Creepy Kids... Who-dun-it first? How bout the Sixth Sense, The Shining, the Omen and the Exorcist... A desperate ghost hoping to manifest itself into physical form? Just watch Child's Play and, oh yeah, Ghostbusters II (Veego's even creepier than Samara at times). There's even a taste of Jurassic Park believe it or not. But most of all Who-dun-the-entire-movie first? Of course its predecessor, the Ring.The Ring Two is of course the sequel to The Ring. To refresh your memory The Ring was genius. The creepy video tape. The mysterious deaths. The deep history of Samara and her family. And of course the infamous phone call warning you that you will die in 7 days. The first Ring movie was deep. The focus being on the video tape, which is much like the creepy chain letters you get in your e-mail, and the suspense of Rachel (Naomi Watts) dying in 7 days. And finally you get your cheap thrills, which Gore Verbinski accomplished masterfully making The Ring a new legend for our generation.If The Ring is deep, The Ring Two is a kiddie pool. With all the things that went on during the first Ring movie, there was nothing left for the Ring Two to do but MORE cheap thrills in between borrowed gags from other thrillers and horror flicks. Verbinski left the director's chair and passed it back to the director from the original Ring Series, Ringu. This was proving to be the most anticipated thriller this year. I was real disappointed to find that the Ring Two simply shouldn't have been made.The Ring Two is about Samara who comes back and wants to be human again. Who does she choose? Conveniently the son of Rachel from the first ring.If you notice there's so much more to talk about concerning the Ring but all it takes is a couple sentences to sum up everything in the Ring Two. That's because there's not a whole lot that goes on. In this movie, plot line wasn't as important as the cheap thrills. Even with the mentality of wanting to be scared, The Ring Two doesn't deliver as well and leaves you thinking "ehh... that could've been done a lot better". The opening sequence, for example, could've been a moment in the movie that all moviegoers will remember just like in the first Ring, but instead it was in short... stupid.There's nothing new in the Ring Two. Everything is either recycled from the first movie or reused from other movies. There are three types of movies: good movies, bad movies, and movies that should've never been made. The difference between a bad movie and one that shouldn't have been made is that the latter has a lot to live up to and has the pressure of satisfying the fans of the story, whether it be a sequel or an adaptation from another text. The Ring Two dangerously ruins the mystery behind the first movie which should've been left alone.Everyone should just watch the Ring One, get scared, be happy, then burn every copy of the Ring Two. That should put Samara away for good.