I've been a fan of The Walking Dead ever since the first episode of the first season. Even though the quality has gone down in recent years I still haven't missed an episode. While the last few seasons weren't quite as good they were still worth watching. It did go out on a high note though, the last season was actually pretty good. It had a few slow filler episodes but overall it was solid. Even though it was definitely time for it to end I'm still going to miss it. When something's been apart of your life for so long it's hard to say goodbye. The good news for fans is that there are a few spinoffs coming in 2023. I'm actually interested in the spinoffs considering they all star my favorite characters from the main show. There's three of them so far...one with Rick & Michonne, one with Negan & Maggie and one with Darryl going over to Europe. Again, those all happen to be my favorite characters so I'm looking forward to them and hope they're good!

Everyone know that The Walking Dead isn't as good as it used to be, those early seasons were groundbreaking in so many ways and because of them this show still gets a high rating from me! Those earlier seasons make this show one of the best shows of all-time! Like most long running shows, it's had its ups and downs but even at its worst it was still the #1 show on cable, in fact it has been #1 every season it's been on the air. The last few seasons without Andrew Lincoln (Rick Grimes) haven't been as good but it's at least starting to get back to being a pretty good show this season. Norman Reedus (Daryl) and Jeffery Dean Morgan (Negan) have continued to carry the show after Andrew Lincoln's departure and I think we can actually look forward to it again!

Have been true fan from beginning, still am, love the show and the characters, BUT.....the taking on of other people, while realistic, is a bit much and they barely fight again the Walkers anymore. This is sad as the fear, desperation and horror of struggling to survive in a world now ruled by Walking Dead, is how it all started.So this is a sincere request to the leaders, the writers and producers, get back to fighting and surviving against the Walkers/Zombies!! Please!!!

Rick is gone, let's end gracefully. It's was a great run.

I loved the first few seasons, but around the time that Negan came, it went downhill. The main thing I liked about the show was the emphasis on humans vs walkers. But now it's mainly humans vs humans.
I feel like the show got sidetracked, and there are so many unexplored avenues. e.g. I would be interested to see if they could connect with people overseas. If they can build things up again and create new towns etc. And gradually restore humanity etc.

Huge fan from beginning, but the writers and producers are screwing up.
Firsts seasons 10/10.
When it was all based in a real Apocalypse , everyone getting used to the new real world after landing in a reallity never imagined..

Frank Darabont spent 5 years developing The Walking Dead and was instrumental in establishing the tone, visual style and what the zombie outbreak would look and feel like. He wrote and directed the pilot episode "Days Gone Bye" delivering a unique setup and live action that was compelling and believable. I also give credit to Robert Kirkman, Gale Anne Hurd, Glen Mazzara (all excellent) for continuing to keep the show on track after Frank's departure. The original cast also played a integral role I also give much credit all of them as well as Greg Nicotero, Tom Luse and Angela Kang for their early work.

So after reading the review "An honest perception" I felt like I needed to write my own review. Everyone is entitled to their own opinions. However, that being said I have to disagree with the reviewer.So here are the reasons I like the show.First, character development, this is not usually a very big trait in the Zombie genre. If you only watched 3 episodes, this is a big part of what you watched. They take the time to give you a slight background of the characters, a chance for you to get to know them. For those of us that are big fans of the Zombie genre it gave us a chance to think "Who would I be?" in this situation.Second, the story doesn't follow a straight line. This was a point of contention in the other review. I personally like the multiple story lines. It keeps things interesting and keeps it from becoming a boring show where I can foresee how everything is going to turn out. And before anyone says itYES I know this is based off a graphic novel. I haven't read it and will refrain from reading it for a while.Third, the zombies look and act pretty bad ass. The make up is done great, not a bunch of CGI which is so common in today's world. So anywayif you aren't a fan of the zombie genre to begin with then yeah, you probably aren't going to get why so many of us love the show. However, I think most fans of the genre will love this show. So in closing, for those of us who love the genre, It's a weekly dose of zombie apocalypse. For those that aren't fans of the genre, when the zombie apocalypse happens and you don't know what to dodon't come crying to me and my friendsyou'll just slow us down.On second thoughtyou may come in handy in case we need to make a hasty retreat

Is not about zombies it's all about people. How can people live without laws how they turn. The people are the walking dead not zombies. If you didn't get it you won't like it.