Yeah just like the title of my review if you a hardcore zombie lover tired of mainstream stuff you can watch this movie to see some cool looking zombie and gore for the sake of gore.The story is not that bad it have a interesting look on zombie but because the poor written it come out very dull and stupid at time.The nice low budget feel and the practical effect is really good is all plus point i can give for this movie.Btw you can watch the movie for free on Youtube so no need to find a copy

Promising miniscule-budgeted zombie piece heavily influenced by George A. Romero's apocalyptic films.Sometimes hailed as 'the most expensive Super 8 film ever made,' The Dead Next Door's apparent lack of funds, acting resources and running time can be overlooked, as 'Night of the Living Dead' was for the same faults, because both of these films excel due to the creators energy and balls to produce something entertaining DESPITE the budgetry restrictions. From it's punchy opening scenes of hungry ghouls stalking the streets and highways of America to the introduction of the comic 'Zombie Squad,' a mixed young bunch of gun-toting federal agents who'll be the heroes for the next seventy minutes or so as we see them try to evade the onslaught of the walking dead and attempt to find a cure for the outbreak.As to be expected in a zombie-flick, the film delivers respectable make-up effects, tense set pieces and large quantities of black humour, all of which are captured on screen with relish. Even J. W. Bookwalter pulls one up on Romero with shots of zombies outside the Whitehouse and the aforementioned ghouls on the highway, showing the director obviously had a lot more audacity and extras than he had dollars. Low budget film-makers should take note and try to produce something as inventive and lively than the usual pap that clogs up the shelves of the local video store.But let's not get too carried away here, for this is no horror masterpiece that 'Night of the Living Dead' and 'The Evil Dead' can truly claim to be. At the end of the day this is a small film with big ideas. The plot is familiar, as are the undefined characters and the sound and picture quality let down the entertainment. The energy of the script and pace of the film is undeniably invigorating though and recollections of how John Carpenter and George A. Romero once made films come to mind.Let's hope Bookwalter's new productions improve with a budget he seemingly deserves here.

This is a clever and pretty straight foreword zombie flick shot on 8mm (think of the first evil dead). J.R. Bookwalter was able to create a gory and entertaining zombie flick with a relative low-budget and local actors. Unlike hack job Todd Sheets (see Zombie Bloodbath trilogy), Bookwalter created a zombie film that gives you everything you want...Heaps of low-budget gore, a satanic occult, the "zombie squad", an unresolved ending, "Evil Dead" references, and Bruce Campbell dubbing over the main actors role(?). The Dead Next Door's video quality is somewhat poor, but looks like the first "Evil Dead" basically. Kinda grainy and low-budget, but not unwatchable like "Zombie Bloodbath". Many of the characters are named after horror directors or writers and there are some pretty cheesy dialog scenes. But overall, the movie works and keeps you satisfied due to the gore and somewhat innovative scenarios. This is an odd little zombie flick that is clever and interesting. Sam Raimi backed the film and later disowned it having his named removed from the credits. I have no reason why he would do that, considering it's pretty cool and as entertaining as the first "evil dead". The "making of" on the DVD is good and the commentary is worth listening too.

Saw this one over at the local electronics store for $10.99 with a recommendation on the front that it was a "worthy addition to any gorehound's DVD shelf" by Rue Morgue. So I figured I couldn't go wrong on this one. I shoulda put it back on the shelf and invested in that 6 DVD "Lone Wolf and Cub" collection instead. Where do I start? OK, the plot. Well, the plot isn't much of a plot. It's in a world where zombies are overunning society and our story centers around a group of police like soldiers called the Zombie Squad. They're guarding a facility where some scientists are working on a cure for the epidemic. Meanwhile in another part of town a cult run by a guy wearing old people's sunglasses, you know those huge black ones, is doing human sacrifices and worshipping the zombie epidemic mainly because the cult leader's son was turned into one. The cultists are causing problems with the Zombie Squad and scientists over philosophical differences and that's where trouble begins. So, that's the story really. The major characters are named after famous horror directors like Raimi, Romero, Carpenter, etc. (Side note: The box claims that this film was made with the help of a LEGENDARY Hollywood Director. This is misleading. It turns out that Sam Raimi of "Evil Dead" fame merely helped finance this pile of dung.) The acting ranges from competent to "go back to the drama club... PLEASE". I mean some of these performances are just god awful bad and it's apparent why when you look through the DVD extras. There's an audition section on there where they show that everyone in the movie were just walk on's whose only requirement in the audition was to tell an interesting story about themselves and scream. No acting out any dialogue or anything. Well, you get what you get I guess. The special effects were pretty cool in some parts of the flick and lame in others. I've read some reviews that said the effects were awesome. Believe me, they are not. They're not even really that gory except for a shot here and there. Factor in that this film was shot in Super 8, a filming format not even up to stuff with an average $300 video camera you can get today, and you get the picture.The box claims that this film was digitally remastered. I hate to break it to the film makers but transferring the original Super 8's to DVD does not constitute digital remastering. There's also a Dolby 5.1 soundtrack but it doesn't enhance the experience. I barely noticed anything significant coming from my rear speakers. The DVD is loaded with extras but they are pretty boring. One amusing extra is the "Frightvision 2000 Reunion" clip. It shows some of the original cast members and director talking about how looking back on it again they've realized what a wonderful film they made. I guess time really does make you forget. There are maybe 15 or 20 people in the audience listening to them talk one of which is some goth guy whose face says "please shoot me now".All in all this one isn't recommended kiddies unless you are into self-torture.

Based on many of the other reviews that have been posted, you may think that this movie sucks. In a way, you're right. If you're looking for a good scary movie to add to your collection, this movie is not for you. However, if you're in the market for an unintentionally hilarious flick disguised as a zombie-bomb, then look no further. This movie had my friends and I laughing every few seconds throughout. The dialog in this movie is rib-ticklingly awful, but the execution of the dialog is even worse. One member of the zombie squad unconvincingly tells a zombie to "have a nice day" before cutting its obviously puppetish head off with a machete. I think Bookwalter must have made this movie so hilariously bad intentionally. Mr Bookwalter, if you're reading this, I just want to tell you that you're a genius and that I appreciate your skill and sense of humor.

The "Dead Next Door" was an OK movie for myself, but i have herd that many people enjoy the film and recommend it. I don't think the plot is very good, but i do realize that it was a low-budget movie. i did like the gore however (there is plenty of it) and the violent effects are not that bad, so if you are a gore-hound then you might want to pick this movie up.i do own this movie and bought it for a fair price; i don't recommend paying an arm and a leg for this movie unless you have seen it and enjoyed it enough to shed some cash. if you're not one for mediocre acting then i also don't recommend this movie.

Clearly this low budget, regional zombie film hasn't pleased everybody, but, honestly, what did they expect? Something of this nature is, more often than not, pretty crude, amateurishly acted, and downright silly. But that's part of the charm of these efforts. Filmed over a four year period, J.R. Bookwalter was given uncredited assistance by a certain major Hollywood director, and also works here with some of his associates. The gore is plentiful and often quite fun, and funny. A criticism I see here is that "The Dead Next Door" is boring, and sure, it's not the most exciting zombie story one will ever see. Bookwalter and company may not be that technically proficient, but one quality they undeniably possess is heart. That's what endears films like this to this viewer. In any event, any production like this that manages to get a shot of zombies trying to climb the fence to the White House lawn is worthy of *some* respect.Zombies are now over running the world, and a special "zombie squad" is created, consisting of jut jawed Raimi (physically portrayed by Pete Ferry, who's dubbed by somebody whose voice you'll immediately recognize), Mercer (Michael Grossi), Kuller (Jolie Jackunas), and Captain Kline (Floyd Ewing Jr.). They end up required to make the trek to a distant location where a serum devised by a Dr. Bow (Lester Clark) just may be the key to reversing zombie symptoms. In their company is a wack job scientist, played by Bogdan Pecic, who's clearly a nod to the memorable Dr. Logan of "Day of the Dead".As I said before, the acting may not be that competent, but like so much here, it is good for hearty laughs. The characters aren't that bright, though: witness what happens to Richards (Scott Spiegel). The story does have its comfortably familiar elements, such as a cult dwelling in the woods. This particular cult seeks to protect the zombies for their own demented reasons; Robert Kokai is good as their leader, Reverend Jones. A fair amount of the cast were also crew members, and it definitely looks like they had a good time making this. Naming some of the characters after famous people is rather an obvious thing to do, but some fans may get a kick out of that.Overall this is solidly entertaining - no more, and no less - for living dead cinema junkies.Seven out of 10.

When I first approached this, I was not half expecting something more crude and nasty, but instead I found this to be mildly entertaining and an inoffensive ode to the classics of the genre, e.g. 'Night of The Living Dead', 'The Evil Dead', et all.Something about this I particularly enjoyed was the tongue in cheek, often self-mocking sense of humour, with such things as a zombie frequenting a video store, and its subsequent choice selection of tapes to rent, and there is a plethora of other in jokes which should please real fans. Other more satirical things like protesters congregating for the civil rights of zombies, and also a religious cult of fanatics which believe it is Gods' will that the un dead becomes the successors to the human race. I suppose many of these little touches go to lengths in characterising the movie.As for the acting here, every player gives Oscar winning Jack Nicholson style performances, um, er, . . . I jest of course, seriously though, all of these willing unknowns do try, and seemingly give their best, and granted the somewhat underdeveloped threadbare script to work with, I think in most case's make up for general lack of natural talent with more gumption and enthusiasm. The director\producer\writer here gives many of the characters names of established horror directors, like calling the main protagonist Raimi, and another one is called Doctor Savini. , And so on. On a side note, Fred Dekker took a similar approach with 'Night of The Creeps' released a couple of years later.One of the problems that pull the rug from under this movie is that there is just too many characters, and none are really fleshed out properly, and there isn't really anything under lying the story to get your teeth into (sorry) making this rather chaotic and boring at times.Effects wise, this has a few good moments, with occasional scenes which sport a zombie that has proper prosthetic makeup, which does look quite good taking into account the minimal resources. Also, some limited special gore effects, such as blood squirting and twitching body parts, which are done here in the style of Sam Raimi's aforementioned sleeper. Other than this however, most effects constitute just extras running around with some green paint smeared on their faces, as you might come to expect.Overall, 'The Dead Next Door' remain a fairly decent zombie outing, and given the production values and time spent in development, can be looked at as a sort of achievement in its own right. Some chuckles and decent effects save it from being a complete waste of time, and I think it is more worthwhile than many modern horror efforts. I can't recommend this one to everybody, but non-discriminating horror movie goers, and real splatter aficionado's will most likely get a bit of a kick out of it.

I really enjoyed this film. I watched it once or twice before I hit the special features and watched the featurettes with interviews from the cast and crew. I think those interviews really helped me appreciate this film more. The director had no budget and no idea how to really operate a camera (it seems the first time they shot a lot of the effects and various scenes, the light meter was trusted less than the untrained eye, and many shots came out so dark that they were unusable). With some creative and sometimes silly, schlocky ideas for gore and effects and an interesting, even compelling follow-up to both Romero's Dead films (the original three which had been released by that time) and Sam Raimi's Evil Dead I and II, I really think this film had some interesting points to it. There are no incredible special effects, the acting is silly (the main character's voice has now been replaced with Bruce Campbell's), the budget was extremely low (though it was funded by a "Mr. X," who kept his identity a secret... do a little research on that one, the answer is surprising), and I think they made something campy, fun, and even, at times, creepy. I liked it a lot for a no-budget midnight flick.

It's not so much that this one's a low-budget Super 8/Hi 8 hybrid of questionable quality that makes it worth watching, it's the fact that this guy stuck with it for four years and got it DONE (not unlike John Carpenter and Dan O'Bannon with DARK STAR, or Dennis Muren with EQUINOX, or David Lynch with ERASERHEAD, etc.). At a recent comic convention, I asked a panel of experts- John Russo, Russ Streiner, and George Kosana- about the difference in QUALITY between NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD and its bastard offspring (like THE DEAD NEXT DOOR). Russo explained that, while NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD was a low-budget movie, it was made by a group of working professionals with years of experience under their collective belts: it wasn't just a knock-off of something else by somebody with a camcorder. (Not that there's anything wrong with that...) It's this experience that Bookwalter clearly lacked when he made THE DEAD NEXT DOOR- but at least he TRIED. As Russo says in his FILMMAKING SEMINAR (which also features Bookwalter): "At least make something. Don't do NOTHING!" Sound advice for anyone in any field, but especially true when you're dealing with no-budget filmmaking. I've spent FAR more time trying to talk people into making movies than I've spent actually MAKING them- and that's saying a lot: at last count, I realized that I'd started but had been unable to finish more than SIXTY shorts (thanks primarily to actors who bailed out on me for one reason or another- including the ENTIRE teen-aged cast of an X-MEN type of Public Access series I'd started, who walked out on me when I refused to buy them a case of beer after the first day of shooting)(I may have been desperate, but I wasn't THAT desperate). Bookwalter himself says: "Take what you have, do the best you can with it." Words to live by. Roger Corman (from HOW I MADE A HUNDRED MOVIES IN Hollywood AND NEVER LOST A DIME): "It is possible to go up against the system and win." NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD is THE Prime Example of beating the odds, and even Bookwalter has gone on to carve out his own particular niche in the world of low-budget indie productions. I've always wanted to get at least ONE thing done that I could point to, that I could be proud of. It hasn't happened yet (and may never happen), but I'm reminded of something else Roger Corman said: "Is there tangible proof of your existence? When you make a movie, at least there is tangible proof. You create something." Like THE DEAD NEXT DOOR or not (and I DO), Bookwalter is a CREATOR- and that's saying something.

If there's anything I hate, it's revisiting a movie I loved when I was a kid, then returning to it and realizing that it's not a very good movie. Case in point: "The Dead Next Door." The debut feature from micro-budget mainstay J.R. Bookwalter, it was made in the span of five years, shot on 8 mm camera, and financed and produced by Sam Raimi. The film was a revelation to me when I saw it as a teen. A made for next to nothing zombie movie that actually delivered and had some neat ideas! Well, I then learned there were tons of zombie movies like this, and though this is essentially the most well loved of the of micro-budget zombie movies, revisiting it years later as a 27 year old man, I realize that it's just not a good movie.The premise deals with the inevitable rise of the zombie apocalypse, and a government group called The Zombie Squad that must exterminate the scourge of the dead. Our heroes Raimi (ugh) (Pete Ferry), Mercer (Michael Grossi) and others soon head to Ohio, only to run afoul of a religious cult lead by Rev. Jones (really???) (Robert Kokai) who believe it is God's will to let the dead wipe out humanity. Well, Mercer get's infected, and a cure is provided by Dr. Moulsson (Bogdan Pecic), which has some pretty bad side effects. Also, you know Jones is evil because he wears sunglasses at night (DON'T MESS WITH A MAN IN SHADES!!!) I really don't want to rip on "The Dead Next Door." The whole thing took years to complete, was clearly a labor of love for those involved, and it's easy to see why it's such a cult favorite among horror fans. It's all done with loads of energy and enthusiasm, and not only did Sam Raimi help fund it, but Bruce Campbell serves as one of the dubbed voices! Plus, the gore effects are incredible considering the budget (about $75,000) and a decent D.I.Y. cheap synthesizers and drum machine score by Bookwalter himself. Ripping on the movie almost makes me feel bad.Alas, it's still not a good movie. The acting is all around terrible, and the script is poorly written, giving us uninteresting, unsympathetic and all around drab characters who make increasingly stupid decisions. Hell, Dr. Moulsson is a a really bland villain of sorts, basically playing the arrogant scientist cliché poorly. And what kind of scientist wears a trucker hat anyways? (there's a lot of bad "only in Ohio" fashions from the 80's here.) Jones by the way, is just another insane cult leader, and it really doesn't help that the cult themselves feel more like a mild inconvenience than a serious threat.And speaking of the cult, this brings up another problem-the whole movie is inconsistent. At one moment, the cult is going on and on about what they believe to be God's wrath, and the next they're sacrificing women while wearing black robes. Seriously, what kind of cult is this? Then there's the zombies. At one moment their shambling, then they are sprinting. And why is it that some can be killed via a bullet to the head or decapitation, and some can't? Finally, low-budget directors: please refrain from naming characters after well known directors and figures in horror. We get it, you love horror movies.Again, I really don't want to be hard on "The Dead Next Door." It's obviously made for beer and cigarettes money, and everyone involved clearly gave it their all for years. Sadly, it didn't do it for me in the end. All the enthusiasm and love for the horror genre in the world doesn't mean you can do a good horror movie.

Back in the early to mid 1980s, word spread around horror fandom that an enterprising young filmmaker was putting together a low budget but ambitious zombie film in Ohio. Monetary setbacks kept the film from being completed for years but it finally saw the light of day on video late in the decade. The film that many thought would be another cult masterpeice like Texas Chainsaw Massacre or Basket Case turned out to be a truly pathetic time waster that proves that anyone, no matter how untalented can make a movie and waste the veiwer's time. Yes, the film is quite ambitious but that means nothing if the filmmaker has no talent and Bookwalter has no talent in spades. The film seems to be a case of two ideas getting mashed together, the zombie plague and the Guyana like cult. But neither idea is very well meshed into the other and the result proved not to be worth the wait. Watch it for it's decent makeup effects. That's all that can really be praised. JR Bookwalter was once thought of as a great white hope who might put some gusto back into low budget genre films. How wrong we were.

There are many great zombie movies around these days. 'The Dead Next Door' will never be one of them. And that's a shame, because if films were rated on the effort and love put into them, I think this one would get a 10/10.The dead have risen. Society has fallen. Now a few humans... Yeah, you've heard it all before. Why should you bother with this one? Well, you probably shouldn't. Zombie movies were done better before (the George A Romero trilogy prior to this one's release in 1989) and after it with more recent films like '28 Days Later' and TV shows such as the early seasons of 'The Walking Dead.''The Dead Next Door' is extremely cheap. And I don't just mean the special effects look like what you'd probably see on a made-for-TV B-movie. This movie has all the hallmarks of a student's final film studies production. The film stock used seems to be grainy, the actors are about as good as the local janitor, the characters are so dumb they make your average blonde bimbo in a slasher film look intelligent and the dialogue appears to have been dubbed on in post production. So why do I own a copy of this carcrash?Maybe because it's just so bad it's good? Not just that. The was a distinct 'drought' of zombie films after 'Day of the Dead' (1986) and 'The Dead Next Door' kind of filled that void in the early nineties until 'Resident Evil' kind of single-handedly reignited the genre. Plus the idea behind 'The Dead Next Door' is pretty reasonable. It deals with people's reaction to losing their loved ones and, although it does borrow a few of the more minor themes from greater zombie films, it does its best to expand on them and try something different.So, I enjoyed it and watch it from time to time. However, it's definitely an 'acquired taste.' I wouldn't really recommend it to everyone, unless you're incredibly forgiving when it comes to your films and don't mind the cheapness and bad acting contained here. Although, to be fair, the gore is pretty good and the zombie make-up is as good as any in a Romero movie!

Make no bones about this - this film is an utter disgrace and an alarmingly bad piece of cinema. I've reviewed several exploitation flicks (most of which were all produced on 'shoe-string' budgets) and have found that most, if not all, of them have some form of redeeming feature. 'The Dead Next Door' is completely devoid of anything seriously positive, though. Its self awareness of Romero's zombie movies makes it even more heinous - characters with names such as 'Raimi', 'Savini' et al. This film stands out more as a landmark of crass, mundane, tedious, z-rate, and student filming more than anything credible. The only vaguely rousing element of the film is that it does feature shed-loads of (seemingly harmless) zombies and no particular lack of gore. However, to watch this film as a parody doesn't even work.For anyone who may be curious as to acquiring a copy of this - simply give it a miss - it is absolute garbage. Riddled with truly atrocious acting, dire plot, terrible sound (it would seem that the dubbing was inserted with a crow-bar!), laughable gore and special effects. As another reviewer has commented - this film is so bad it's simply bad. A sheer waste of time, money, and effort. 3/10

The Dead Next Door is one of hundreds of zombie splatterfests that are churned out by indy directors every decade. Most of these movies fall into obscurity, only to be discovered by the curious horror nut looking for some z-grade zombie gore. While I don't consider my self an expert on these such films, I have seen my fair share. And I have to say, this film is the best of the best.The Dead Next Door is first time director J.R. Bookwalter's Super 8 zombie epic with the modest $80,000 budget backed by Sam Raimi himself, with voices dubbed by Bruce Campbell and countless zombie film references slipped in everywhere.It follows the story of a force constructed to resist an outbreak of the living dead briefly explained in the beginning of the film. The force captures zombies for study by Doctor Savini (Zombie movie reference #2435) in order to find a cure. The main plot of the film is about the corps discovering a mad cult led by mysterious sunglass – clad Reverend Jones. The cult protects and practically worships the living dead and our heroes have to go through them to kill the zombies.There are definitely some memorable images, such as zombies on the capital steps and a group of protesters campaigning for zombie rights – who all get devoured by zombies. Altogether it is a great film with cool gore effects and an OK storyline for a B movie. Some of the actors are alright, and the references are priceless. If you enjoy a good zombie flick, check this out.

THE DEAD NEXT DOOR has got to be in the top 5 in the "So BAD it's GOOD" horror film category. Every aspect of this film is inept, except for the gore FX. The acting is atrocious. The voice-over dubbing is ridiculous. The script writing is ludicrous. The obvious nods to famous horror icons (with characters in the film named Savini, Romero, Carpenter, King, etc...)that get old after the first 10 minutes, the camera-work that is so horrible that even the daylight shots are too dark to see what the hell's going on and are usually out of focus when you CAN see what's going on...I could go on and on about the faults in this film. Even so, it's the whole "who gives a sh!t" attitude about THE DEAD NEXT DOOR that makes it so "good" (and I use the term "good" very loosely...) - and also the obvious fact that the ENTIRE budget had to have been spent on the gore/make-up FX that are actually very good.As far as story, there's something about some kind of "zombie virus" and a serum and a cult and some doctors and some scientists and all sorts of nonsensical bullsh!t. Regardless, it's still a pretty fun watch - and did I mention the gore is well done and plentiful? THE DEAD NEXT DOOR is one of those types of films you really just have to make your own mind up on. If you're looking for a serious, well-done zombie film - this ain't it. If you're interested in some mindless, gory, zombie ridiculousness - this IS the one. I have to give THE DEAD NEXT DOOR a 7, even with the faults I was honestly entertained with this one...

It's not to bad, you can tell the movie is old just by the effects and the picture and the acting, but actually it wasn't all that bad. The zombies were more funny that scary, and it almost made me chuckle a few times because they act sort of funny, running around mumbling, the gore was good, I like when the guy got his throat bitten out, and when the one police officers fingers got bitten off reminded me of a scene from the remake of Wes Craven's "The Hills Have Eyes" which was my favorite part in that movie, so it was kind of cool to see a similar scene in this movie. To be honest I'm not done watch the movie right now, and it seems nothing will really change my review on this movie cause it's almost over. But if you like horror movies, and zombies and gore, then check out this movie, I'm not got promise you'll like it because everybody's taste in movies in different, but all I know is I enjoyed it. So feel free to check this movie out.