Very loosely adapted from the Daniel P. Mannix novel of the same name, 'The Fox And The Hound (1981)' focuses on two unlikely friends who struggle to maintain their bond as they inevitably move into adulthood. One is trained to hunt (and even kill) the other, which obviously puts a bit of a strain on the relationship. Will they be able to overcome their nature and stay pals? Well, that's basically the core concept of the piece. It's an interesting theme and the flick often does a decent job dealing with it. It's a small-scale story with personal stakes that typically works quite well. The film is rather slow, though; its plot seems to have been stretched to fit its feature length. It lacks energy, too. I mean, its opening is possibly one of Disney's dullest and its songs are just lazy, to be honest. Ultimately, though, it's a relatively enjoyable time. Its finale is exciting, its animation is entertaining and its central relationship is engaging. It's a solid, mid-tier effort from Disney. 6/10.

This is a film that both delighted me and deeply upset me, because it seemed so happy, and yet, so unfair at the same time.  The two best friends, the "Fox and the Hound", meet again after they are fully grown adults, or, when they are old enough to face the fact that their friendship was never meant to be.  That broke my heart, because it was such a beautiful friendship, unfairly tarnished by a cruel world.  If only our world was a happy place, where races and cultures didn't matter, and if only we could recognize those characters as our friends, and not our enemies simply because of our ethnic differences.  Years later, Spike Lee's "Do the Right Thing" brought up that same point with a vengeance.  And, like "The Fox and the Hound", it shows how much that beautiful friendship between people won't last because of how society determines our friends and enemies.  It makes no sense, and it's unfair.  What's more, Tod, the fox, endures more than any other character in the film.  Other characters, and especially the hunter, discriminated against him without thinking.  And we the audience had to endure seeing him go through this misery, all because he was born a fox!  It's insane! Sadly, it's true to life.  And that is the main reason it was made for kids, to point out how wonderful a friendship is, and how ridiculous it is to tarnish it because of a racial or ethnic difference!  And although this film runs on the standard Disney formula, with the songs, the comic relief, the love interest, and the villain, this film really touched me, because I wanted to see their friendship go on.  And although it did go on in some form, there is always that feeling of "he doesn't belong" being uttered by many of the other characters.  Why?  Well, this film asks children and adults alike, that very question.

I really liked the way this film followed two different characters on their life journeys. It was a departure from the usual Disney plot structure. These characters are well fleshed out and engaging. The only reason I didn't rate this higher was because of a certain unbelievable bridge scene.

This is my favorite Disney movie of all time. It is, in my opinion, one of their finest. Why do I think so? First, I like its realism. It is not some fantastic fairy tale, nor is it some good-against-evil-good-eventually-triumphs story. There are no heroes or villains in this story. This lack of good and evil made the story and the characters seem more alive than the ones you usually see.I also like the message this movie gives. It is simple yet powerful. The two main characters wanted only the most innocent of things - friendship. Yet society couldn't allow this friendship to be. This movie tugs at your heart, and it doesn't stop tugging. And the realism didn't diminish any by the movie's close. The main characters' problems remained unresolved, yet each finished the movie in contentment. I feel that this lack of a "everything's okie-dokie again" finish like you see in traditional animated movies gave this story a powerful element.If you're looking for songs your children can sing over and over again, you've come to the wrong movie. Each song is sung in a flavorful yet discreet manner. Little orchestration. Yet if you're looking for memorable characters, you've come to the right movie. Each character is very well developed, motivated by true emotions and the things that the everyday person wants - love, food, companionship. Each character is vibrantly drawn, and this vibrancy is matched by the character's personality. I saw a real person within the animal. Nobody is created in an idealistic image.From realistic characters come a realistic story. Nothing felt written or hacked. Everything felt like it was supposed to happen. There was nothing outlandish about the entire story. And if you're looking for comedy, you'll find none. This is pure drama, yet it's drama that kids can easily understand. This movie had a story that seemed like it could've easily happened to the average person. This is a rare and endearing quality.Basically, I loved this movie for what it had, a heart of gold, but also for what it lacked, a traditional formula. If you're looking for a story with a difference and a bittersweet flavor, this is the movie for you! It is nice, quiet, yet provocative and emotional. To sum it up, it is good clean fun with a touch of heartache, a true drama!

In 1981, Disney released their 24th animated feature, The Fox & the Hound, based on the book by Daniel P. Mannix. Attempted as a more mature feature than their other endeavors at the time, the film went through constant meddling behind the scenes with the higher ups tampering with the original source material, in addition to animator Don Bluth and his posse to leave half-way through and compete with the Mouse House. Nowadays, while not regarded as a Disney classic like Pinocchio or Bambi, it's still fondly remembered by people who grew up with it. As for me, while I admire it to some capacity, it could have been so much more.The film focuses on a domesticated fox named Tod and a hound dog named Copper who become friends when they're meant to be enemies, not helped by their masters' expectations. As the two older, with Copper becoming a strong hunting dog and Tod a wild fox, they'll have to overcome their differences to salvage their friendship. Conceptually, this is a really good setup for the type of movie this is meant to be, and the themes of racism are quite subdued to make the commentary more timeless. Unfortunately, the film falls flat in its execution thanks to a weak comedic subplot that barely has anything to do with the feature at all, and the toned down second act. For every disturbing moment in the film, there's always a lame excuse for levity than actually ends up hurting the tone more than anything. It doesn't help that the film barely has much story in its second half, as it mostly consists of Tod meeting a young vixen named Vixie until the climax ensues. If you're going to tell a story about a fox and a hound overcoming prejudice, have one focus and one focus only.However, when the film does something right, it really leaves somewhat of an impact. While the film is visually restricted to just a forest area and a couple of cottages, the art direction and world-building make the most out of the limited environments with strong colors and gorgeous shot compositions. While the characters have their typical Disney-standard designs, the animators did the most with what they were given with strong gestures and specific acting. When you take into account that a new generation of artists were being passed on the batton from the nine old men, it must have been terrifying to continue the Disney legacy. Also, the third act might be the most memorable part of the whole movie, because not only does the climax really test Tod and Copper's relationship, but a notable bear fight puts one at the edge of their seats. With Glen Keane's ginormous draftsmanship and dynamic camera angles ensuing, this scene alone showcases everything the movie should have been: daring, unafraid to take risks, dark, violent and impactful on the dangers of harming animals.In terms of any other specifics, the voice-acting is pretty spot on, especially with the contrasts between young Tod and Copper as kids and them as adults. Mickey Rooney seems like an odd choice for Tod, but he's able to come off as brash and young as ever in his sly role, and Kurt Russell gives off a brooding yet innocent presence of Copper maturing in his later years. While some Disney regulars of the time period show up like Pat Buttram as the old stuffy Chief, Jenatte Nolan as the kind hearted but overprotective old widow, and Dick Bakalyan and Paul Winchell as the pointless and obnoxious comic reliefs Dinky & Boomer, some other noble veterans of cinema include Jack Albertson as the craggily and stubborn Amos Slade and Pearly Bailey as the kind-hearted teacher to Tod Big Mama. Even with forgettable musical numbers and trite side material, the supporting actors are able to do the most with each of their individual personas. One can't expect much from a watered down tale of prejudice, but at least the cast can lend some substance to the experience.The Fox & the Hound feels like a fascinating case study of the Disney studio getting themselves back up on their feet after the death of their founder. While it might not have been as strong in its execution as its concept, it does at least have its moments of impact that understandably resonated with its own generation. The Disney studio would only go on to do better things as their company expanded in quantity and quality, but it's cool to see where the generation after the nine old men were at in terms of making the best film they could. After almost 40 years, it's still a peculiar type capsule nonetheless.

Since I was very young, this has been one of my childhood favourites. For a long period of time, I hardly watched it, but luckily we watch it regularly again now! :) I love the characters, the storyline is pretty good, the animation is lovely Disney and the songs are good! The film is about an orphaned fox called Tod, who is cared for by a human called Widow Tweed and an owl called Big Mamma. One day, the next door farmer buys a basset hound puppy, about the same age as Tod. When the two meet, they become the best of friends...I recommend this to all dog lovers, fox lovers, people who like Disneys but also like non- Disney cartoons, children who like a good adventure story and adults who would like to try out a heartwarming Disney classic. Enjoy!P.S There are a few scary scenes, so some cautious parents may want to decide which scenes to fast-forward when their kids are watching.

One of Disney's finest motion pictures, extremely underrated and forgotten to a pulp. Kurt Russell, Mickey Rooney and even Corey Feldman all give their talent to this story of a fox and a hound who become friends, only to turn on themselves in later years because they are expected to. Not only is the film engaging, but it also has a metaphorical story going on. I understand it is supposed to represent humans and racism, but apart from the preachiness of it all the film is quite good on the level of a whole. A definite must-see. The ending is bittersweet and at many times during the film you will actually start to feel for these creatures. On a sidenote, I used to have a dog just like the one in this movie. It was just like the one in this film.**** 1/2 out of *****

A beautifully animated cartoon, with loving attention to detail and bright, pleasing colors....but the story is overly predictable. Kids will probably like this, and adults will have a passable time, but don't expect anything in the realm of "Alladin"...(**1/2)

This is a wonderful film that is a true classic and a must own for anyone who loves dramas.This movie like the title implies is about two young friends(fox and hound) that when they meet are too young to realize they're supposed to be mortal enemies.the film follows they're story over the course of a year in which the two grow up and realize the friendship that was once so strong between them is forbidden, one is a fox, and the other a bloodhound that hunts foxes.so the dilemma is inherent from the get-go, and at one point the hunter who owns the hound says to the widow who owns the fox that her fox has attacked his chickens and he implies that he'll kill the fox if he ever sees it again.this leaves the widow with only one heartbreaking choice, to let the fox go in an animal preserve(a real tear jerker folks).the hunter hot with rage decides he is not satisfied and intends to find Todd(the fox), and kill him.copper(the hound) and the hunter chase Todd until suddenly a vicious bear appears out of nowhere and attacks the hunter.copper attacks the bear trying to protect his master when the bear turns on him.then its Todd to the rescue as he lures the bear over a cliff to it's death, only Todd falls too.at this point copper having been saved by Todd sees how foolish it was to end they're friendship and rushes to Todd's aid at the bottom of the cliff, the hunter close behind.copper stands over Todd and when the hunter points his gun at Todd he exclaims "get out of the way boy(copper)" ... copper stands fast.the hunter angered prepares to fire when copper lets out a mournful whine... the hunter realizes the error of his ways and lowers his rifle saying to copper "c'mon boy, lets go home".the movie ends with the widow mending the hunters broken foot, the hunter crying like a baby when she touches it.I'm a rather jaded 17 yeah old guy and i still cry when the widow leaves a bewildered todd at the animal preserve. this is one of my very favorite movies and i'm sure you'll feel the same.

For some reason, this animated feature from the Disney stable had eluded me until now - even if I remember it being shown in local theaters on original release: I understand that it's among the less well-regarded efforts, but I found it a cute little film overall; even so, the plot line (adapted from a book by Daniel P. Mannix) is somewhat thin and the songs (never my favorite element in these films) very pedestrian. As a matter of fact, it's the various endearing characters which make it watchable - and not just the titular duo (the surprising, but most capable, cast of voice actors includes such veterans as Jack Albertson, Pearl Bailey, John Fiedler, John McIntire, Jeanette Nolan, and Mickey Rooney as Tod the Fox); that said, the romantic interest which crops up during its last third proves a distraction from the central relationship - which is quite movingly developed. Ultimately, though, the animation itself seems rather flat and uninspired: it's clearly a case of "we've been here before" and this leads to few, if any, memorable highlights. By the way, as per the regrettable Disney Studios custom of late, a direct-to-video sequel recently appeared.

The Fox and the Hound is such an excellent Disney film, being on one of the tops of my list. I couldn't of asked for a better Disney film either. This movie made me cry a lot and I'm a guy. It was like the only movie I cried to except The Return of the King. The movie is bittersweet and heartwarming and the movie also gets into your heart and rushes out. The movie is quite underrated to my belief. Getting a 6.5 rating and 3 stars is just not in my books. Well, I guess the critics do it call a classic so I don't know. I highly recommend this movie and if your looking for a film to cry to this is the movie to get. A very stunning pictureHedeen's outlook: 10/10 **** A+

The ruins of an interesting film can be seen here. I don't know much about the creation of this film, nor about its source material, but I don't feel especially compelled to. The Fox and the Hound features moments that try to attain the kind of drama of Disney's very earliest work, but by the end comes off as little more than a retread of past Disney films with much weaker animation and less compelling characters, despite some psychological content that might have held potential for more mature storytelling.Structurally, this thing is a straight lift of Bambi. The first half details Tod the Fox and his days as a child learning the ways of the world. Interestingly, the film kicks off with a surprisingly dark tone, killing off the mother in the first scene and leaving an orphaned cub to be taken in by Tweed the widow. Already, some interesting themes are introduced as we see Tod make friends with the hound pup Copper, a friendship that's clearly doomed to tragedy. Aside from the obvious forbidden friendship, there are themes of man's relationship to nature in the widow becoming a mother figure to Tod. Clearly, this was the most character driven Disney feature in a long time for Disney. Does it pay off? Nope. Mostly, the first half of The Fox and the Hound prefers to waste time with a bunch of asinine comic set-pieces in which the twosome play tricks on Chief the hound and get the Hunter all riled up for some wacky redneck gags. In between this is a lot of cloying nothing that isn't half as cute as watching Bambi stumble his way through early life. It meanders and meanders without really making much of a point other than these guys enjoy each others company. There's also some side plot about a pair of woodpeckers trying to get a worm, but it adds up to absolutely nothing and mostly serves as annoying padding.Then, like Bambi, we get the second half where Tod simultaneously discovers his sexuality and the horrors of life. This half works a bit better, with some moments of real power, but makes a fatal flaw with the relationship between Tod and Copper. Tod sends Copper on a vengeance fueled rampage against his former friend when he...gets Chief's leg broken. Now, had Chief been shown as a faithful friend and father figure to Copper, and had Tod gotten him killed (as, I believe, it was originally meant to be) this shift would have real gravitas to it. Instead, it comes off as unearned and random, totally against what we've come to know about his character. The rest of the film simply doesn't have the weight it needs because of this one fatal script flaw.Which isn't to say there aren't those moments that truly work wonders toward the end. The bear scene in particular, though rather abrupt, is fantastically animated and legitimately thrilling, a triumph for greenhorn lead animator Glen Keane. The climax, in which the Hunter compromises his pride, is legitimately powerful as an ending, and in a better context would have been truly moving. Alas...whatever moments work here, they're constantly hindered by what comes before and after.As animation, The Fox and the Hound is a real step down for the studio. Disney's newfound star, Don Bluth, stayed aboard for a time before packing his bags and walking out to start work on the vastly superior Secret of NIMH. His team's animation here reminds of their work on The Rescuers; very well done technical wizardry for pretty vapid scenes. A few of the Nine Old Men do scant work here and there, but none of it stands out. The best work is done by future star animator Glen Keane, whose bear scene has a remarkable weight and power to it, and whose Badger character is kind of fun too. Otherwise, the animation on this film is competent at best and mechanically dictated by adherence to animation principals at worst. It's a shame seeing technical elements so by-the book here. What's even more distressing is that it's still far better animated than the next Disney project, which will barely pass "Saturday Morning Cartoon with more in-betweening" levels.One can see the process Disney was going through. Take an old framework like the plot to Bambi and update it to fit the trend of edgier animation that was going on at the time. It's too bound by convention to be anything but a pale retread, unfortunately, and it's unsurprising that the Disney exodus took place during the making of this and The Black Cauldron. Bluth moved to his new studio to make The Secret of NIMH, a great, dark fantasy feature that accomplished everything Disney was trying to, and various others left either with him or to start their own projects.It's really a precursor to The Black Cauldron, a film that aims for the same goals to a much more prevalent and upfront manner while failing even more miserably as a film. They didn't call this the dark age for nothing.