I have yet to watch a good or a very good Martin Scorsese movie. Every movie I watched is a 10. Also, old Jack Nicholson is as good as young Jack Nicholson.

Just watched it last night and can't help but think how much better the original "Infernal Affairs" was compare to "The Departed." The Departed had wasted its cast power, failed to fully develop the characters, failed to focus on the inner conflict for the two undercover, didn't make enough of a point in betrayal, and tried but failed to made up with Scorsess' trade mark violence and sex.I didn't feel the inner conflict of Matt Damon the same as Andy Lau. I couldn't help but feel for Jack when Matt betrayed him while I could understand Andy's inevitable turn and his trying to be a better person than he was.I couldn't feel for Leonardo. He was crying and breaking up after what? SIX MONTHs? Damn! Tony Leung was a undercover for nine years and he didn't sign up because he chose to, he signed up because that was the only way he could be a cop! Martin Sheen got shafted in his role. There was no time for his character to develop a believable relationship with Leonardo. His screen time was wasted. When he got pushed off the roof, Leonardo wasn't feeling the loss of his only life-line to the world, there was still Mark, he wasn't feeling the loss of a trusted friend, there was no friendship, he wasn't feeling the loss of a fatherly figure, and the only emotion he could have was the shock from the brutality of the murder.Mark Walhberg and Alec Baldwin got shafted, too. Mark Walhberg was reduced to a foul mouth asshole turned plot device. What do we need him for other than showing up at the end to put Matt out? Alec Baldwin? His whole highlight was to make that stupid speech about marriage at the golf course? COME ON! The only bright spot in this movie is Jack Nicholson. But even his talent is wasted because he had no one but "Mr. French" to play off his evilness. The classic scene of the original Infernal Affair had Jack's character to confront his counter part in the police station with some of the most memorable moment of the film. Jack has no counter part in "The Departed" and his brilliance was wasted. (The dock encounter was lousy with Martin Sheen making empty threats and Mark Walhberg just running his mouth off.) Matt Damon and Leonardo Dicaprio made lousy under covers, nowhere up to the professionalism showed in the original. Even the confrontation at the end lack the power of the original with the surprise. More dead bodies and more punches and elbows actually subtracted the suspense and the confrontation. There was nothing like the psychological confrontation with the calm manner in the original. Instead, we had elbows flying and a character cracking up crying. Mark Walhberg's existence actually ruined the helplessness of Leonardo. Unlike the original, logically he didn't have to do it alone."The Departed" is a good movie if only it wasn't a remake. There is a reason it is not doing well in Hong Kong. The original is much much better plot wise and character wise. The acting was superb in both movie but the script and the direction was the difference. Even though the plot was essentially the same, Infernal Affair was a much better movie.Watch the original if you haven't seen it, and see the difference in camera work and characters.

I swear I thought I had seen this before and knew it was a good movie how could it not be with this cast so this must've been my second time through but I honestly did not remember the plot it was like seeing it for the very first time I was so caught up and enthralled in who was zooming who this movie definitely is one of my all-time favorites and I think it gets better every time you watch it the performances are totally stellar. So many great lines in this movie two classics !! One of my favorites "this is not reality TV".

This is definitely Martin Scorcese at it's finest. Something I must warn about is that this is not an "action movie" even though there are fight scenes and deaths it's not like a Jason Statham movie with the main character kicking everyone and easily beating his enemys, plus the action isn't the main focus. The main focus is the cat and mouse chase between the police informer and the mob informer, with many scenes that make you think that they will finally find the truth but end up failing. This movie is also full of twists and surprises that don't feel forced or random and actually make the story better. The acting is amazing but it was to expect because of the casting. And the direction, the soundtrack,everything is perfect in this movie. Truly one of the best movies of all time.

Before seeing this, I knew I was in for a treat, given that it's a Scorsese movie, but The Departed was even better than I expected.The acting is outstanding. Leonardo DiCaprio gives what is quite possibly the best performance of his career. Even the people who hate him admit he did a good job. It's turned some haters into fans and my brother who despises him even says he was great. Matt Damon and Jack Nicholson give their best performances since The Talented Mr. Ripley and As Good As It Gets. Mark Wahlberg almost steals the show with the best lines. Ray Winstone, Alec Baldwin, and Martin Sheen are good, too.Definitely one of the best films of the 00's. And easily one of the best remakes of all time. It's intense, funny, exciting, suspenseful, superbly acted, violent, has great characters, and has one of the most shocking scenes I've ever seen. And there's not a boring moment in it's two and a half hour running time. The film will most likely be nominated for picture, director and adapted screenplay, and in my opinion, it deserves all three of them. DiCaprio and Wahlberg also deserve nominations.See this as soon as you can.

The plot line of this film you could almost say is a Shakespearean tragedy. Beautifully written with surprise reveals. Casted perfectly and Howard Shore's score works great to bridge together the scenes. It's honestly as high of a 10/10 as you can get.

The DepartedThe screenplay: Top NotchThe performances: all-star cast delivering all-star performancesThe music: perfectThe Directing: Martin Scorsese at his finest and that is saying something.Once again Scorsese delivers a film that meets or exceeds the expectations of its audience in nearly every way. There are moments of incredible tension, violence, and drama, moments where characters reveal their vulnerabilities and weakness. Comedic moments and moments of sadness and through it all a multi layered and brilliant story is told by an American film maker who once again proves Harvey Keitel correct when he said, "Maybe he (Scorsese) got what he deserves--exclusion from the mediocre." This film is Scorsese's finest work since Raging Bull, but it is not simply about Martin Scorsese or the amazing screen play by William Monahan, it is more than an amazing score, and great cinematography. While many of the accolades for this film belong to those behind the scenes people who envisioned and directed this film. One would be remiss to not point out the great performances of an all-star cast, many of whom deliver the finest performances of long and storied careers. Martin Sheen, Alec Baldwin, Jack Nicholson, Leonardo DiCaprio and Matt Damon deliver incredible performances. However the performance that stood out for me was Wahlberg, Mark Wahlberg's Sgt. Dignam stole every scene he was in, and he shared screen time with each of the afore mentioned actors. He gets to deliver some of the best lines, and with every scene he leaves the audience wanting more, and anticipating his next scene.Since The Academy has had its collective heads stuck  for so long, mentioning a Scorsese picture and Oscar in the same sentence seems to be a waste of time. That being said I can not say if he will finally win the Oscar that he has deserved for so long, as his major competition (Flags of our Fathers) has yet to be released, I will say that I expect to see Wahlberg nominated for best supporting, and Leo and Damon will be pitted against one another once more, this time for best actor, Monahan will be nominated for writing, and of course Scorsese will be nominated for director. Also, it goes without saying a best picture nomination will be in order for The Departed.That was the long version; the short version is if you like a movie with incredible performances, direction, music and visuals. If you like a layered story that is not formulaic, in short if you appreciate film making and story telling at its finest then see this film. Even with the glowing reviews of myself and others, and the high expectations they will undoubtedly bring I assure you that you will not be disappointed.

I got to see a sneak preview of it, and I must say: the BEST film of the year so far. Scorcese is at his best and truly deserves his anticipated first Oscar for this film. Also notable are the performances of Matt Damon (such a great "bad-guy;" he really must do stuff like this more often), Leo DiCaprio, Jack Nicholson (as always), and Mark Wahlberg (best since Rockstar). However, some in the theater with me who had seen Infernal Affairs did say that Departed did not live up to the original. I have yet to see Affairs, but I honestly believe that Departed was pulled off well enough to really bring in some respectable awards in the upcoming season.