I am a sucker for hero type movies and I thought The Green Hornet was great. I'm not sure what some people are saying about it but I think movie goers nowadays, with all this technology, expect movies to fly off the screen at you. Give movies the credit they deserve and see it for what it is - a piece of entertainment.Seth Rogan's character was of a spoiled son who was trying to get attention from his father, so his character being mean to Kato was not a surprise since he never had any siblings before. Anyone who knows human nature would agree.I think the storyline was able to be followed, the dialogue was funny and the action was great. The movie industry isn't like it used to be since all these kids have so much electronics, they don't know what to do with themselves anymore so it becomes a challenge to produce movies that everyone is going to like. Instead of putting down a movie so quickly, look at all of its points.I enjoyed the movie and recommend it to anyone who wants to go and see something good - but see it in 2D. You'll like it better.

I've been keeping my expectations low for this film and I'm glad that I did. I was a big fan of the 60's television show, but I didn't watch any episodes until the mid 90's; so I've been waiting almost 15 years for a film adaptation on the Green Hornet.The film is campy, the story is corny, the villain is wasted and Seth Rogen wrote the script. Based on the plot and the dialogs, it's not a well made movie; but it doesn't try to be. This movie could have been written more seriously and be on the same map as a Christopher Nolan's Batman film; but instead, it went on the road to be a comedic film with a lot of explosions. Some stuff didn't work, other stuff was clever & visually entertaining.The stuff that I admired the most are the homage to the original television show. There were some criticism to the 60's show about how the Kato character was just a sidekick, butler, manservant, an aid or a chauffeur to the Green Hornet. Bruce Lee didn't have much dialogs and he didn't have much screen time. It was during the 60's and just having an Asian-American to be an everyday character on a show was a big deal, so I never saw that as an insult. In this movie, they make a HUGE deal about that subject as Seth Rogen & Jay Chou are constantly arguing about Kato's role throughout the whole film.Other homage to the television show is a drawn image of Bruce Lee, Al Hirt's theme "Flight of the Bumblebee" tune, and there's even a scenario from my favorite episode that has been written into the movie. The Black Beauty is also a very awesome car! The funny thing is that in the TV show, the Black Beauty was a brand new & very recent 1966 Imperial Crown sedan. In the movie, it's the exact same vehicle; but it's now a classical vintage car.I saw the 3D version and there were very few sequences where the 3D effects was worth the extra price of admission. I recommend saving your money and watch the 2D version instead.To finally sum everything up; the movie isn't good, but it brought back my love for the characters inside the Green Hornet world. The film is visually entertaining for what it is. I hope there's a sequel, but that somebody else will write its screenplay.

If you don't know what to expect and you haven't even seen the trailer than i believe you are going to have great fun. The movie is not a classic main stream super hero movie but a very nice parody making fun of the way super hero movies are made, emphasizing on their blank spots. Do not expect a meaningless script like "super hero movie". Green Hornet has its own storyline that is consistent, but the characters and situations are hilarious. I haven't laughed so much for a long time, which makes the movie a success judging by the result. I believe it is a great way to spent an evening if you want to relax and watch an easy entertaining movie.

I went to see this in the middle of the day on a weekday, and ended up being the only person there, which makes little difference in light of the fact that I enjoyed it.A lot of reviews I've seen that are in the negative about the movie all seem to be coming from people who act like every single movie that comes out is supposed to have some deeper life altering meaning beneath it. For those people, I'm sorry to tell you, but this is simply the sit back and have fun watching popcorn movie.It was campy, sometimes corny, but absolutely fun. It didn't take itself so seriously that felt weighed down at any point, considering it clocks in at around roughly two hours, it seemed pretty well paced to me. The story does play with the viewers consciousnes of the Hornet/Kato relationship in how it was originally portrayed in the TV show, with who the viewers saw as the star of that show, in the way that Chou's amazingly adept Kato and Rogen's somewhat Bumbling clueless Hornet interact on the regular.Movies are supposed to be a fun break from reality, and suffice to say with the action, comedy, and camp homage made throughout this film. This is a really good break to take if you feel like one.I saw it in 2d, which was how it was originally filmed and it was visually engaging the whole time. So either way I think you're in for a treat.

The trailer got me all excited to watch this, but boooooy was I wrong. I was really hoping this was going to be like Iron Man but instead it felt like that darn Streetfighter film with Van Damme. Like Streetfighter, the movie felt really short, because there was not much of a plot. Heroes were generic and same with the villains. You see the bad guy in the beginning, but there wasn't much character development which made the villain very generic (which also made it obvious how the story is going to end). Kato's role was generic as well, like he was a typical Asian foreigner who does all the hard work but no play. Now I understand why Nicolas Cage turned down the role of the villain and same with Stephen Chow as Kato...lame. Besides the cheesy characters, the fight scenes were done in slow motion which made it seem fake and derivative of the Matrix, Seth Rogen (green hornet) was annoyingly loud most of the time, I didn't really understand what Jay Chou (Kato) was saying sometimes because of his heavy accent (which also made his acting kind of wooden), and Cameron Diaz felt like she was there just for star power for some reason. Even the action scenes (especially towards the end) was very boring, (believe it or not I actually fell asleep during the middle of an action scene), my brother tapped me on my shoulder to wake me up. There was nothing in this movie that was really interesting other than maybe the black beauty (green hornet's car) and maybe his hornet gun, and that's about it. And what was up with the 3- D? The glasses made the movie too dark and did nothing to the experience (I am getting really sick of 3-D).

When I heard that Seth Rogan was going to play the Green Hornet, I had my doubts. He often portrays the same character, the loser/stoner/nice guy. I used to like the comic book and TV series, and I probably watched it because my dad played the trumpet, and he liked to play the "Flight Of The Bumble Bee" theme song, trying to emulate Al Hirt. "Not now Kato" was one of my early quotable phrases. "Green Hornet" was less popular than "Superman" and "Batman", but had the better sidekick with Bruce Lee's portrayal of Kato.And with the spate of movies that have been based on comic books, the expectations were high. So many blockbusters have been superhero-based and I was wondering if this movie was made only because it was one of the few left that hadn't already been made into a movie and the producers were hoping to jump on the bandwagon. So with that, I eagerly anticipated seeing this movie.The movie opens with a gripping and yet goofy storyline. Christoph Waltz plays the criminal mastermind Chudnofsky, a man obsessed with being scary, and quickly establishes himself as the evil villain. Amid the violence is dialog that makes you laugh aloud. It won't be the last time.Rogan plays Britt Reid, the overindulged party animal son of a wealthy newspaper owner. He and his father have had a tough relationship, with Reid never living up to his father's impossibly high standards. After his father dies, he discovers Kato (Jay Chou), who, while devoted to the elder Reid also was treated poorly. As Britt discovers that Kato is a genius with cars and gadgets, they unwittingly become a pair of crime fighters. It's a nice back story that sets the stage well for the sometimes rivaled relationship. They also compete for the attention of the secretary Lenore (Cameron Diaz), a role that is way underdeveloped. I'm not sure about this choice for the role, and even though I enjoy Diaz, it probably was time for a younger and fresher face to have been cast.Unlike the earlier incarnations, D.A. Scanlon (David Harbour) and the Green Hornet are not close allies. As the story unfolds, we get to see some of those great cars and gadgets. But it is the fight sequences that really sizzle. I saw the 2D version of this movie, and when it is released it will be a 3D version, and the fight sequences will no doubt benefit by being viewed in 3D, but even in 2D, they were awesome. The car chases and some other scenes will also likely be fun to watch in 3D, but I'm not sure that this movie really needed the extra special effects in order to become a classic.Throughout the movie, I was surprised by how often there were laugh-out-loud moments, as well as some great one-liners, usually by Rogan. Of course, there is the climactic chase scene and shoot out, with some new and interesting ways in order to make it fresh. You won't be saying "I've seen THAT before" - believe me. The only problem I had was that the premise for the final car chase is a bit flimsy, and breaks the movie magic for me. ***Spoiler Alert*** I mean really, a hidden tape recorder that records on a flash drive, but you have to go back to the office to upload it? Wouldn't you build mobile communications into the car if you took the time to install a fax machine? But I'm willing to suspend reality and forgive breaks from older story lines when it comes to the movies, and just let myself get wrapped up in the spectacle unfolding on the screen. "Green Hornet" is funny, action-packed, well-acted and gadget-filled to make this one of my favorite superhero movies. I'll probably see it again in 3D just for fun. Rated PG-13 for violence and sexual references. Keep the 10 and under kids home. Opens Jan 14, 2011. 9 out of 10.

It's still four to five months before "Thor" starts playing and of course, movies that go on theaters before May are not usually super anticipated. However, January's "The Green Hornet", with Seth Rogen and international pop star Jay Chou is is one good, action movie. Action? Yes. Comedy? Yes. Worth to watch? Hell yeah!First, "The Green Hornet" is about this one guy named Britt Reid (Rogen) who is the son of the boss of a large company that runs newspapers. One day, while Britt is still having fun with his girls, his dad's name James Reid rolls on TV with the years "1948 - 2010". He's dead in the age of 62. Britt becomes the leader and meets Kato (Chou), his father's assistant who's talented in martial arts, making coffee but not in swimming. Together, they fight crime in several unexpected and silly ways against Chudnofsky aka Bloodnofsky (Waltz).The trailer, with Jay Chou speaking English, cool cars, Britt knocking himself out and others is quite interesting. Especially when it's in 3D. The pictures themselves look exciting and with idiotic Britt Reid, it seems like it's not a bad movie.The action. Yes, you will definitely enjoy this movie. Britt's fighting will give laughs that will make you howl like wolves and Kato's martial arts skills will leave audiences breathless. It's definitely going to make this movie likable and I'm sure you'll love the action scenes with the explosions. Oh yes, and blood.The comedy. I know it seldom appears but when it appears, it's going to make you laugh your head off. Such as Chudnofsky being said not scary and later scaring whoever said it. Or because Britt knocked himself out with his Gas Gun.The 3D. This was weak. There were no eye-popping effects, just depths because as I sometimes take off my glasses to compare the movie in 2D and 3D. 3D works perfectly fine without the glasses, not blurry at all, very inconspicuous. So, I recommend 2D better.Overall, "The Green Hornet" is not a bad movie. It's not a waste of time and it's possibly a good way to start out the 2011 movie season.Thank you for reading and hope this review is useful.

I never watched episodes of the TV series, nor have i read any of the Green Hornet comics, though i doubt they were as lame and as silly as this new movie adaptation of Green Hornet. because of the big adds and billboards this movie has, i bought into that and decided to watch it tonight, and i wish i have not !! i was expecting a cool superhero, a crime fighter type of movie with a little a humor, but i was let down and disappointed. it had too much humor it turned into a full comedy, a cartoon. it became silly and ridiculous. the plot did not have anything special, just another average superhero plot with some really silly and lame parts " Spoiler AHEAD " >>> Hornet and Kato fighting over a girl !! how silly is that <<<< END Spoilerand i saw this in 3D, what a waste !!! nothing special about that except for small parts of the action scenes, not really worth the price. Some of the action scenes were cool, but not enough to save this movie from being a failure. Also, Cameron Diaz role was unnecessary and she was just one of the marketing aspects of this movie. the whole thing was a Hollywood joke, just too much Hollywood !! please don't buy into the big billboards and the charming adds, because this movie really isn't good.Im also surprised that some people are giving this good reviews, probably they are either 10 year old kids, or people who watched it drunk with a group of friends !

The Green Hornet has one of the best cars in the movies. It's bullet proof, fire proof, has built in war heads and machine guns, its tires can't be shot out, and it has an ejector seat which could shoot you half way to the moon...and yet an elevator door can cut the vehicle in half. The car is a good metaphor for the movie as a whole I think. The Green Hornet, is fast an exuberant but it feels overstuffed and structurally flimsy. I'd say it could use a rethinking, but as it stands, it's not unwatchable.The best I can say for this movie, is that it's amusing. It is able to sustain it's energy for a hundred plus minutes, with a fair dose of humarous action, sprinkled with some delicious visual effects shots. The picture I think lends itself quite nicely to a 3-D transfer.As a superhero satire, The Green Hornet, works in pieces but the big picture seems off. Whats ironic is that this movie about an egomaniac is written somewhat egotistically. Seth Rogan seems more like a burden than a benefit to the production. He tries way too hard to hog the spotlight. The Green Hornet has been written so that the majority of the humour is based off him. That would be fine if he was funny, but he's not. He is juvenile, and nasty, and as a superhero, he is painfully useless without his partner Cato and his car. I suppose that in itself, is kind of humorous, but it makes me wonder if his intention is to have the viewer laugh at him not root for him. Rogan gets most of the one liners, but a few are given to the villain he fights. I like my villains with a little humour or wit, and judging from Inglourious Basterds, anyone can see that Christoph Waltz is the man to do this. But he doesn't get it right here. He doesn't crack jokes, he IS the joke. Waltz' function is stripped down pretty much to satirical narcissism.The film has an ending which makes me think that the makers just got lazy, but at least they avoided the mistake of asking the audience to anticipate a sequel. The Green Hornet is kind of fun to drive around with, but it only works on a superficial level, and is not nearly clever enough to be memorable. If nothing else, at least offers a way to spend two hours on a Friday night in the season of cinematic junk and apocalyptic hodgepodge.

Where do I start ? See how long we can take one joke and stomp it to death again and again and ( voice gradually fades ) ..Arrogant rich kid blundering through life ; Smart sidekick does everything for hero who doesn't get it .... The casting is so far off wack in this, Seth Rogen who is supposed to be core of this film is just not convincing either as rich playboy buffoon, or as a prospective crime fighter. He spends the whole film being unsure of what he is doing there. The arch villain even when he is shooting people is not the least scary. The humour is crass, directing appalling. The few decent actors Tom Wilkinson, Edward James Olmas just look embarrassed.I notice there is no DC logo at the beginning, and someone should have stopped this mess a long time before release. I guess having Mr Rogen as producer probably didn't help.Its not that I don't like these type of films; Iron Man is one of my all time favourites and Kick Ass does what it says on the tin. Really - buy yourself a tin of Dulux, a 4 inch brush,find a wall and slap it on. You'll find watching it dry a lot more fun..