The first time I saw this in the cinema in '99, I remember actively disliking it - the first time I'd had that reaction to a new Bond release. I saw it a second time at the cinema, and disliked it less - but still wasn't keen. Now, in the dying days of 2002, and quaking with hatred for - and disappointment at - 'Die Another Day', I re-evaluated TWINE for a second time. And I have to say, compared to this year's farce, TWINE is bathed in a golden glow. In terms of character development, plausibility (always tenuous in Bond films, but still), acting, and script, TWINE is far and away and without a shadow of doubt superior to 'Die Another Day'. Above all, this is a Bond film that does occasionally treat its audience like they have brain cells, rather than a ghastly exercise in sci-fi pretensions with MTV production values.The opening sequence reveals itself to be one of the very best in the series, taut and exciting, flawlessly directed and perfectly executed. There's nothing else in the film that can quite top it, but some inspired casting helps immeasurably. Sophie Marceau is superb, and it's great to see Robbie Coltrane reprise Valentin Zukovsky, who bags many of the best lines. Judy Dench as 'M' is given a high profile in this entry, which is all to the good as she's clearly the best thing to happen to the Bond films in the Brosnan era. Alas, Desmond Llwelyn makes his final appearance as 'Q' - it would be thus even had he not died the following year - and his exit is well-handled.touching, even. On the downside, Robert Carlyle is not quite convincing as Renard, but it barely matters as Marceau is so firmly in control. Denise Richards isn't as bad as she's been made out to be - indeed, she actually seems smarter and less bland than Halle Berry in DAD.Plot and action sequences throughout the film are deftly handled, but there are some areas where TWINE seems a little derivative, cheerfully looting the Bond back catalogue, for example in the Caucasus skiing sequence which fuses together action setpieces from YOLT and OHMSS. There are also moments of alarming silliness more redolent of the 1970s and '80s, such as the scene with John Cleese making his debut as future-'Q' and all scenes with Goldie in as Bullion. And for those of us who aren't fans of Pierce Brosnan, there's plenty to annoy - excessive jaw-clenching, lots of posing, inherent charmlessness. I'm sure he's lovely in real life, mind.Generally, though this is a competent entry in the series, and its attempts at depth just about succeed. It is also the most `how'-and-`why'-proof Bond film since the 1960s, a refreshing change from those Bond films that arrogantly command the audience to suspend their beliefs and do all the maths themselves. Quite why it all went wrong three years later is anyone's guess, but I blame 'XXX' and a continuing adoration of 'The Matrix'.

In the opening scenes Bond recovers a quantity of money but when it is returned to tycoon Sir Robert King it explodes and kills him. Chief suspect is psychotic terrorist Renard; who had previously kidnapped King's daughter Elektra. She had managed to escape but Bond is convinced that she is still in danger. Having taken over her father's business, Elektra is in Azerbaijan when Bond catches up with her and it isn't long before an attempt is made on her life by attackers using para-gliders which bear the markings of a Russian security agency. A consultation with former KGB officer Valentin Zukovsky, previously seen in 'Goldeneye' leads him to an old Soviet missile site in Kazakhstan where weapons are being decommissioned. Here he finally meets Renard before he can escape with a stolen warhead. He also meets up with scientist Dr Christmas Jones who joins Bond to hunt down the weapon before Renard can detonate it and engineer an oil crisis.This is a fairly average Bond film but even average Bond is quite entertaining. The story is obviously far-fetched but it is still entertaining and has a good twist part way thorough. As one would expect there is plenty of fairly spectacular action; the best being when the para-gliders attacked Bond and Elektra as they were skiing Bond films do seem to like featuring great action scenes on the ski slopes! The pre-title boat chase is also pretty spectacular. Robert Carlyle was quite menacing as Renard although he is nowhere near as frightening as when he played Begby in 'Trainspotting'. By this, his third film as Bond, Pierce Brosnan is clearly comfortable in the role and does a decent job even if by this point in the series the character has become a bit of a caricature. Sophie Marceau makes Elektra an interesting and seductive character but I couldn't believe in Denise Richards as a nuclear scientist this is largely the fault of the costume department she may look great in a tight singlet and hotpants but she doesn't look like a nuclear expert! Overall this is a fun but ultimately forgettable Bond film; worth watching but by no means a classic.

The World is Not Enough is directed by Michael Apted and adapted to screenplay by Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and Bruce Feirstein, using characters created by Ian Fleming. Music is scored by David Arnold and cinematography by Adrian Biddle.Bond 19 and 007 is required to protect a female oil magnate from potential assassination, but it soon becomes apparent that something far bigger and sinister is around the corner.Pierce Brosnan returns for his third turn as super suave secret agent James Bond and all the crucial elements for the franchise are firmly in place. From the exhilarating pre-credit sequence down the river Thames (14 minutes worth) to the glorious over the top explosive finale, this is a Bond film for those that enjoy the cheeky action led mania over thought and depth. Into the Bondian mix are the usual stalwarts; Judi Dench as M, Samantha Bond as Moneypenny, Desmond Llewelyn as Q (bidding a sad farewell to the franchise with a poignant moment) and Robbie Coltrane joyously returns as Zukovsky. Bond girl duties fall to Sophie Marceau (beautiful and solid) and Denise Richards (sexy, elfin like, but out of her depth) and the psycho for hire role lands at the considerably fine feet of Robert Carlyle, even if the latter is badly underused.The World Is Not Enough (the Bond family motto) is a whizz bang entry in the series and finds Brosnan well settled in the role; nailing the multitude of traits that make Bond a man that women want to bed and a man that men want to be. Locales are lovely and interesting (Turkey, France, Spain, Azerbaijan), the plot carries some intelligence (with a decent mystery element for a change), characterisations are high end and Arnold's score is a safe accompaniment; as is the title song by Garbage. It is, however, all too aware of wanting to appease Bond fans across the spectrum. Thus the comedy moments come off as saggy and the more scientific aspects (as gloriously ridiculous as they are) feel more like auto-pilot plotting. Still, you get what you pay for with 90s Bond, and the action sequences are terrific. After the mixed Tomorrow Never Dies the makers were clearly intent on taking the fans on a ripper of a ride, and no doubt about it, they achieve that in spades; with the two hour running time just flying by.Eon of course would take things one step too far three years later with the nadir that was Die Another Day, thus making this the last good Bond film before Daniel Craig's fabulous re-invention arrived in 2006. 7/10

Pierce Brosnan returns in the 19th Bond adventure in which 007 is sent to protect Elektra King (Sophie Marceau), the daughter of a murdered oil tycoon who was also an old friend of M (Judi Dench). The threat appears to come from terrorist Renard (Robert Carlyle), who has a bullet in the brain courtesy of MI6 that has made him immune to pain. Renard is playing the nuclear explosion card, which leads to Bond girl nuclear weapons expert Dr. Christmas (Denise Richards), who has minimal impact but seems attractive. She will see firsthand that there is some truth to Bond's fame. Danger !. Suspense !. Excitement !. There must be when he's around !. Some men want to rule the world... Some women ask for the world... Some believe the world is theirs for the taking... But for one man, The World Is Not Enough!!!As the countdown begins for the new millennium there is still one number you can always count on. Bond is Back.This Bond entry contains sensational pursuits, frantic action-packed and stimulating set pieces. The World Is Not Enough(1999) begins with an exciting prologue that takes place in the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, from where our protagonist already does some of his typical pirouettes and jumps from a building. Then a terrible attack takes place at the heart of MI6 itself, the famous British secret service. In front of the best secret agents, including Bond, a bomb explodes, killing one of the most important businessmen in the world, then 007 goes to action . Pierce Brosnan's third appearance as the agent with a license to kill, after ¨Goldeneye¨ (1996), ¨Tomorrow Never Dies¨ (1997) and before ¨Die Another Day¨ (2002).The villain of this adventure is one of the most human of the series: Renard, a bad guy with an emotional side who is brought to life by Robert Carlyle. They are joined by Robbie Coltrane, Judi Dench as M, John Cleese as R replacing Desmond Llewelyn as Q, the gadget master. This was Llewelyn's last appearance on the big screen since he died that same year in 1999. He was the actor who appeared the most times in James Bond films. And other secondaries such as: Samantha Bond as Moneypenny, Michael Kitchen, Colin Salmon, David Calder, Serena Scott Thomas, Patrick Malahide, Ulrich Thomsen, among others.The numerous action scenes overwhelm the roles and Bond has little to contend with as the villains are pretty discreet. There are also the typical Bond girls: Sophie Marceau, Maria Grazia Cucinotta, and Denise Richards, who, of course, fall for the charms of the handsome spy. There's a welcome darker edge to both Bond's character and the plot that the franchise should be built on, rather than trying to outdo his death-defying stunts every time. It contains spectacular and stirring musical score fitting to action by the always stunning David Arnold. And attractive song title: 'The World is not Enough' lyrics by Don Black performed by Garbage, along with the classic James Bond theme music by Monty Norman. Colorful and fascinating cinematography by cameraman Adrian Biddle. The motion picture produced by habitual producers, Eon, Albert R Broccoli, Barbara Broccoli and Michael G. Wilson , being professionally directed by deceased filmmaker Michael Apted. He was a good director, producer of several successes ,such as ¨ ¨Gorillas in the mist¨ , ¨Class action¨, ¨Nell¨, ¨Enigma¨, ¨The Chronicles of Narnia: The Voyage of the Dawn Treader¨, ¨The word is not enough¨, among others . The film will appeal to James Bond fans.

Call me crazy but I wasn't that impressed with this latest installment in the James Bond series.  I thought the plot was pedestrian, the action scenes dull, and the 2 Bond women delivered  completely inept performances.  Well Sophie Marceau was o.k but Denise Richards was really bad.  The only thing worth watching when she was on screen was when she was in a tank-top or wet t-shirt.  The villain played by Robert Carlyle was underused and one of the only things that managed to save it was John Cleese, for the brief time he was on the screen.  I know a lot of people who think this is the best Bond ever but everyone says that about something that is new.  If I were you I'd wait for the video because there are so many other good films to see before going to this one.  Here's hoping the Bond franchise dies.  But this one is making a bundle so tough luck for that hope!

The World Is Not Enough is a 1999 spy film, the nineteenth in the James Bond series produced by Eon Productions and the third to star Pierce Brosnan as the fictional MI6 agent James Bond... My favorite movie James Bond pierce brosnan 007!!!!!!!!!

The latest James Bond outing is a fun, if stale, formula piece which offers up little originality and yet has such a polished, flawless sheen that you can't help like it to a degree. Ideas were very thin on the ground here and the plot is a very loose one involving various traitorous characters swapping sides and shouting at each other a lot. It's all very confusing and to be honest not very interesting - mainly because none of the actors and actresses on screen appear to be getting into their roles, instead looking simply bored.Pierce Brosnan has settled into the role nicely, but his portrayal here is nothing short of lazy. He is also let down by his supporting cast - although to be fair the script isn't really interested in giving depth to our characters, instead preferring to have them as one-dimensional stereotypes. Sophie Marceau was hyped up as the newest femme fatale yet I think she seems out of place and miscast here - she's too sophisticated to be a realistic villainess. Robert Carlyle makes the most of his over the top villain, but he is barely on screen and the script gives him only a few lines.Various other supporting characters pop up, including Judi Dench, who looks even more out of place than usual when she gets trapped behind bars; Desmond Llewellyn is as mischievous as ever as Q, poignantly in his final role, and Robbie Coltrane overacts for all he's worth as a greasy Russian swine. The usual familiar British actors also pop up, including Michael Kitchen and John Cleese. But it's Denise Richards who stands out, for all the wrong reasons, as one of the most wooden Bond actresses out there - until Gemma Arterton came along in QUANTUM OF SOLACE, at least.What this film does benefit from are a couple of show-stopping action sequences, especially the opening boat chase over the River Thames which is the best that Bond has ever been. Unfortunately, things lose their way a bit with a terribly clichéd and unbelievable ski chase and a silly moment where Bond and co defuse a bomb while flying down a pipe (!). Thankfully a moment where helicopters with circular saws demolish Bond's car and a building makes up for these minor mishaps. The ending feels rushed but is pretty good too. Altogether, this is not the best Bond I've seen, and I'd rate it alongside something like THUNDERBALL.

The World is Not Enough is a really good James Bond film that's suitably fun, exciting and action packed even if it's completely reliant on franchise formula and doesn't do anything new. Pierce Brosnan is reliably incredible as James Bond and Sophie Marceau, Judi Dench, Robert Carlyle and Denise Richards are all really good. Michael Apted's direction is great, it's well filmed with plenty of set pieces and it's well paced. The music by David Arnold is also really good and the song by Garbage is fantastic.

Two important elements in the success of any Bond movie are the calibre of the Bond girl and the main villain. Where both are good, such as Honor Blackman and Gerd Frobe in "Goldfinger", the result can be a classic. Where both are weak, as with Tania Roberts and Christopher Walken in "A View to a Kill", the result can be a very disappointing film (although, to be fair, Roger Moore's performance in that film was also very much below par)."The World Is Not Enough" (the title is taken from the Bond family motto) takes the unusual step of combining Bond Girl and villain in one person. There have been female villains in previous episodes, even glamorous ones such as Naomi in "The Spy who Loved Me", but they have been relatively minor characters, subordinate to a male criminal mastermind, generally middle-aged or elderly. There is normally no doubt about which side the male villain is on (although "For Your Eyes Only" may be an exception in this respect); nobody familiar with the conventions of the series will be surprised when, say, Drax in "Moonraker" or Naomi's boss Stromberg turns out to be the bad guy.Sophie Marceau's Elektra King, however, is the first principal villain who is young, female and beautiful. Moreover, for much of the film we do not perceive her as a villain at all. She is the daughter of a prominent oil tycoon who inherits his business after he is murdered at the beginning of the film, and we are initially led to believe that the mainspring of the plot will be Bond's attempts to protect her against Renard, the ruthless international terrorist who was responsible for her father's death and who is threatening to blow up her pipeline which connects the Caspian oilfields to the West. Only later do we realise that Elektra and Renard are actually in league with one another and that she has an even more sinister plot in mind.Given that Elektra effectively combines roles that in most Bond films would be played by two different actors, it is fortunate that the lovely Marceau copes so well with the burden placed upon her, making her character both detestable and desirable. (Although Elektra is half British and half Azerbaijani, Marceau herself is from France, a country that has provided three other lovely and talented Bond girls in Claudine Auger, Carole Bouquet and Eva Green).To even up the balance, a more conventional "good girl" love interest has to be provided for Bond in the shape of Denise Richards who plays nuclear physicist Dr Christmas Jones. Although Richards is as attractive as Marceau, she is unfortunately much less talented, and proves to be the weakest Bond girl since Roberts. She is never convincing as a scientist, not because of her looks (contrary to what some might think, there is no genetic link between beauty and stupidity) but because of her weak acting; whenever she has to discuss anything technical it is all too obvious that she has no idea what she is talking about and is simply repeating lines learned by rote.Another feature of "The World Is Not Enough" is that it appears to be less of an extended advert for the travel industry than most Bond films. Although Istanbul (famously featured in "From Russia with Love") makes another appearance, most of the locations- the industrial city of Bilbao, London's East End, the Caucasian oilfields- are not the sort of glamorous tourist destinations featured in most films in the series. There is a particularly good opening sequence in which Bond takes part in a thrilling speedboat chase along the Thames and in which the Millennium Dome makes its first screen appearance. (It is a pity that M's line "Well, at least the Millennium Dome has some use" was cut, although admittedly we did not realise in 1999 what a massive white elephant the Dome would prove to be the following year). There is also a chase scene involving snow and skiing- something that has perhaps become an over-familiar cliché in Bond movies. Pierce Brosnan is as assured and capable as ever in the main role, and there are some good supporting performances from Judi Dench as his boss "M" and Robbie Coltrane as the dodgy Russian businessman Zukovsky (who also appears in "Goldeneye"). This film marked the last appearance of Desmond Llewellyn as the eccentric scientist "Q" and the first appearance of his successor "R", played by John Cleese as a sort of hi-tech Basil Fawlty. Denise Richards apart, this is one of the better Bond films, with an excellent balance of excitement, humour and glamour, and probably Brosnan's best together with "Tomorrow Never Dies". 7/10

My comments are quite simple: this is quite possibly the worst Bond film ever. Yes, with Bond films we are used to outrageous plots, unbelievable (though always entertaining e.g. Christopher Walken in "A View to a Kill") villains, but at least there would be something like a story. The director and writers would get together to give the inevitable car chase/sky diving/skiing etc etc scene some relevance to the "plot", but not this one. "Tomorrow Never Dies" was poor, but this was awful. "Bond will be back", I do not care.

THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH has to be my favorite James Bond film. It seems that Pierce Brosnan's Bond films have the longest teasers (pre-credits sequences) in the series and the River Thames chase was a brilliant start, not to mention well-filmed with the London background. The action scene that stands out from them all in the film is the helicopter attack on the Caspian Sea. The plot is very interesting with twists and turns with all the oil involvement, and Pierce perhaps gives his finest Bond performance in his four outings.Robert Carlyle makes a chilling villain as Renard (he's already dead and can't feel pain), but the biggest highlight of TWINE is the two leading women: Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards. Marceau is very well-cast as villainess Elektra King and is perhaps the best Bond villainess since THUNDERBALL's Fiona Volpe. Richards is a gorgeous actress and she's very charming and fun as heroine Dr. Christmas Jones. These are two of the most beautiful and sexiest Bond girls in the series; you are going to love both of them.With its well-staged action, epic plot, Pierce's wonderful performance, and two brilliant Bond girls, TWINE is a Bond adventure both Bond fans and non-Bond fans will treasure. ****