Having seen The Simpsons Movie many times, I know the movie thankfully did not stray far from the series that Simpsons fans know and love. The animation is of course a higher scale and is perfect for a big screen effort and triumph, such as this one.The effects were spectacular on a movie screen in
2007 and on my TV and in all the years I've viewed it.To describe it in simple form Homer once again, ignores the words & warnings of Marge by, this time, polluting Springfield lake with a mini-silo of Spider Pig's refuse all for the sake of getting to a doughnut shop before it closes.His actions effect not just his family but the whole town as well and even the Government gets in on it by taking drastic action against Springfield by closing them off from the world. The Simpsons are all fingered for the blame and the family escapes the town and heads to Alaska.Side story lines in include Lisa's infatuation with a new Irish boy in town who's also concerned about the environment and causes she shares.Bart being humiliated by his own father who dares him to skateboard into town without his clothes on. (I couldn't stop laughing at townspeople's reaction.)Finally, thanks to Homer pinning the blame on Bart to the police for something he made Bart do, Bart's had enough and wishes Flanders were his dad and starts spending time with him instead.The upshot is how can Homer redeem himself, save his family and the town of Springfield, now that he has screwed up 1,000,000 times worse than he ever did on TV?You'll have to watch it if you haven't yet.Despite not being even 90 minutes long, it was worth the $7 + price of admission back then and I never get titred of watching it.Every joke and gag works, the video from Marge to Homer is the most serious she's ever been in sounding like she will leave him because of all he's done. There's no big message here except the obvious one about the environment, which is important but your not clubbed over the head with it.As well as making up for (huge) mistakes and redeeming one's self as well. The Simpsons sure have come a long way since "Bart Gets an "F",that's for certain.10 stars! I liked it that much.

The Simpsons just aren't what they used to be. The Simpsons Movie is a strong effort for the franchise as of late, in that it was often funny, but it's still missing the depth of the classic seasons. That, and Mr. Burns, who should have been the main villain but was reduced to a cameo- one of the greatest villains of animation brushed to the side when he had his greatest chance to shine.Some jokes- Homer stuck between a rock and a hard place for example, seem Simpsonish. But the movie as a whole didn't have much of a point, unless you've been faced with the dilemma of living inside a giant dome and you've got to destroy it, and what about the environmental problem posed earlier in the movie? No solid conclusions, solutions or coherent plot needed, just laugh, please.And, for the record, Spider-Pig was not that bad.

Just about everything I could have hoped for from a Simpsons movie including the heart the show has been lacking for several seasons now. If you like the easy breathing pace of the early years of The Simpsons you'll find a lot to like in the movie. The gags are leisurely and natural and even when they fail (Comic Book Guy comes to mind), another drops in to pick up the laugh. What's most surprising, in addition to a much needed return to consistent characters, is that the movie manages to balance the plot and the gags with near perfection. Regardless what you may think going in, it does feel like a "real" movie from beginning to end and not just an extended show. Albert Brooks once again steals the show as the Director of the EPA, though Tom Hanks does the best celebrity cameo the show has seen in ages. "tousle my hair Mr. Hanks!"

For all the creativity crammed into one half-hour episode of "The Simpsons," I am probably not alone in saying that the show's creative apex bottomed out when it stopped being a "funny sitcom" and became a "cultural phenomenon"--it's been years since I've sat in front of the TV on a Sunday night with the primary interest of being wowed by Matt Groening's brainchild. When the show first began in 1989, the Bart-friendly T-shirts and pins seemed borne out of uncertainty over the show's staying power; these days, with the show's position in the TV canon firmly established, your Xbox games are designed for little more than feeding the "Simpsons" cash cow. That being said, I revisit the show every once in a while (via taped weekday-afternoon reruns of earlier seasons), and very much appreciate it--the sense of satire is sly, incendiary, and often very funny. Some critics cite horror films as being able to express social concerns that would be difficult to convey in other genres; "The Simpsons" would be another arena (and easily the more critically acclaimed).So, after years of hype, this cultural phenomenon has spawned a film (aptly titled "The Simpsons Movie") that most fans will no doubt consider 'belated.' As a laid-back viewer with an appreciation of the show, the end result is frequently "LOL" hilarious, but not very endearing (honestly, I had forgotten most of the gags by the time I was out of the theater and walking to my car). The best I can say is, "it's like a really good episode of the TV show" rather than "a great film," though I guess that's complimentary enough. I will pick up the DVD once it's released, and be reminded all over of why the film succeeded in its primary goal of clever laughs.It begins with an excellent jab at the film's own existence, courtesy of Homer ("Why pay for something we can watch on TV for free?" indeed!), then delves into a plot that is as incendiary as anything the yellow-tinged family has tackled: an environmental crisis strikes Springfield when Homer dumps a silo a pig feces in a lake that's been recently de-contaminated, inspiring outrage from the citizens and the government (headed by President Schwarzenegger, though I kept thinking "President McBain"), whose EPA liaison (voiced by Albert Brooks, who also guest-voiced the similar "Hal Scorpio" years ago) covers the contaminated city in a huge Plexiglas dome. Before you can say "Al Gore eats yellow snow," the Simpsons escape through a literal sinkhole and make tracks for Alaska as renegades from the law, only to find themselves returning to rescue their idyllic American home.Which ultimately isn't much different than what you would find in an average episode of "The Simpsons." This is a film that knows its audience, but also successfully provides an initiation for those who (for some strange reason) have never seen the show. The animation is fluid, colorful, and uber-glossy, and the writing is on par with the better episodes (the mantra remains "anything goes" in "Simpson"-world); some intriguing character twists aside, the film overall neither exceeds nor diminishes the expectations of those who expect everything and those who expect nothing. It's a fun summer film, but not an outstanding blockbuster of endearing quality...you'll laugh heartily and maybe feel moved, but the relatively short running time is both a blessing and a curse--while you will be sufficiently guffawed-out by the end credits, "The Simpsons Movie" leaves a viewer yearning for more. I suppose that's as good an indication as any to go back to the tapes.

I was dreading this. The series has been faltering for at least five seasons so far and it is obvious they were running out of jokes. Well it seems they have saved quite a few for this comic masterpiece. The Simpsons movie manages to pack in a gag rate that is comparable to "Airplane" but also manages to tell an entertaining story that goes beyond the confines of the usual 22 minutes we are used to. I will not reveal the plot as future generations will enjoy this movie but I have read a comment that compares it to the Family Guy movie. What are you on? The style of this piece is subtly different to the T.V. show and when it goes into a Big movie moment you really notice and appreciate it. Compared to other small screen animated of recent years e.g. "South Park" or "Beavis and Butthead do America" it does not feel like an extended episode. Also manages to thrill the most mixed audience I have sat in for years. The audience applauded which is always a good sign.

I'm an absolute fanatic of The Simpsons and have been watching it since it was on Tracey Ullman. I grew up with it. I was the exact same age as Bart when the very first episode premiered. Unlike a lot of fans, I've never turned my back on the show. I am not one who thinks each new episode is worse than the last. I do acknowledge that it's long past its peak, but I think almost every new episode is funny enough to be worth seeing. Once in a while, they'll produce an episode that's genuinely fantastic. But, really, I don't demand fantastic. I'll settle for a few good laughs and be at least moderately happy. Now comes The Simpsons Movie, which had been talked about for the last 15 years, at least. Much like when I watch new episodes, I wasn't expecting the movie to be that great. Unfortunately, it fell below even those expectations. It has a few good jokes and moments (the only time I laughed really loud was the Tom Hanks bit), but it doesn't do much right. Those who've long turned their backs on the show like to complain about recycled plot lines. It's true, of course, for pretty much every new episode, but the show has grown more manic and self-referential over time. Many don't like that, either, but I personally do like those kind of jokes. The movie just plods along with a predictable plot that's made up of some of the most basic of all Simpsons plots: Homer and Marge relationship problems, Lisa's environmental concerns, and Bart's loss of faith in his father. None of it here is done with the irony of the newer episodes. It's like it's part of the really early Simpsons, when we hadn't seen these plots a billion times. Except it completely lacks the perfect comic timing of the early seasons. In the end, the movie is only an occasionally amusing affair. Certainly it's worth seeing if you're a fan, but, unless you're the kind of nut I am, you can wait for the DVD.