This movie has some classic ingredients for a great horror movie. Interesting characters, some really vile gore scenes, bad language, unnecessary nudity, and some familiar faces; Leslie Easterbrook (from the Police Academy movies), Ken Foree (the original Dawn Of The Dead), 80's pop singer/actress E.G. Daily and Michael Berryman (The Hills Have Eyes) provide more than enough nostalgia for retro junkies, like myself.The story isn't overly fast paced but the gore can be thick and pretty relentless and is at times implied rather than shown which I think adds to the experience. I really enjoyed Leslie Easterbrook as Mother Firefly (replacing Karen Black who was in the first movie, House Of 1000 Corpses). She does some wonderful overacting in her scenes, it's a shame she wasn't in it more, same goes for E.G. Daily who plays a sassy hooker. In fact everyone was great in their parts, let's face it this is not Shakespeare - this is a horror movie, I for one demand hammy over the top performances and a bit of camp! I don't want to give anything away but I will say my favourite scenes involved Mother Firefly and the sheriff, and Captain Spaulding and a mother and child. If you enjoyed House Of 1000 Corpses, this is a superior sequel in my mind and you wont be disappointed. If your idea of horror is a glossy PG-13 rated remake you might want to try weaning yourself onto this kind of movie with something a little less extreme.

OK, I loved "House of 1000 Corpses". I loved it for completely different reasons than I loved "The Devils Rejects". The mood in the first one is far more campy, almost cartoonish. The actual fear and horror mixed with that weird wink is perfect. "The Devils Rejects" on the other hand seems almost real. These people are out there...these people do not care about you or your children. Hell, they don't even care about your dog or furniture. The music, the angles, the complete disregard for the feelings of others. Blantant hedonism at it's best. Some folks walked out...I sat singing "Free Bird" till the screen went black. If it's for you, don't miss it. If you believe you are the least bit squeamish...go get that new direct to DVD Stitch movie!

What makes this film rob's best is for one his formula works. The trashy redneck nature & modern western approach is welcomed with characters that feel like individuals with personalities instead of cartoon characters like in 1000 corpses. The dialogue while still vulgar feels more authentic. Everyone stands out in this movie, especially William Forsythe as the sheriff. The other best thing about this movie is how it toys with your emotions. These are horrible vile characters you just wanna see get what they deserve, but than theres scenes like them getting ice cream where you kinda hate yourself for laughing along them. Also gotta compliment the soundtrack. Southern rock Classics with the best use of free bird in a movie I've ever seen.This isnt a masterpiece tho. Its still a pretty vulgar, shock value, cheesy fueled movie. Also i know rob based the characters names off Groucho Marx movie characters but why reference that in the movie if it doesn't lead to any kind of answer? Pretty unneeded scene.No doubt rob zombie improved as a director after 1000 corpses. I don't think it's one of the greatest horror movies ever made but definitely one of the standouts of the 2000s.

I went to this movie having seen 1000 Corpses which I thought was a great retro B style horror in the Texas Chainsaw massacre genre. This movie FAR exceeded any expectation I had. Zombie NAILED it in this one. Classic Freeze frames, awesome soundtrack(used with purpose)-Just enough gore with out going over the top.. the essential random nudity shots that we B fans have come to expect. Suspenseful through-out.I realize that what makes all of these components work:A- This movie (Unlike 99% of all B Horros) is not predictable. You do not know what is going to happen next. B- Zombie builds characters. You learn history and connections, and see things from their view. C- Slight comedic aspect added. Summary: MUST SEE, MUST OWNin the words of my horror loving awe-struck friend "This is hands down the best B horror I have ever seen!"

I can't remember being so bored and disgusted during a movie in a long time. "The Devil's Rejects" picks up where "House of 1000 Corpses" left off and the family finds themselves under the assault of the local police in a shoot out right at the beginning. The assault is led by Sheriff Wydell who happens to be the brother of another Wydell killed by the family in the first movie. Mother Firefly is arrested but Otis and Baby escape the shoot out and are soon joined by Captain Spaulding at a seedy motel after they take a traveling band hostage. Then the movie takes great pains to show us how depraved these people are. They torture and humiliate their hostages just because they can. Why? I don't know, perhaps there is a point to it in the end. After they finish with the hostages Captain Spaulding takes them to his brother Charlie's whore house while Sheriff Wydell tortures Mother Firefly back at the police station. Do you remember Billy Dee Williams' "Lando Calrissian" character in "Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back"? Well that's exactly what Charlie is: a businessman under threat by a higher authority to give up his friends in order to save his own ass. That's what he does and Wydell get Spaulding, Otis, and Baby with the help of two hired thugs. From there on, Wydell pretty much exhibits the same respect for the trio as they do for their hostages. I'm not saying who wins or loses but in the end the audience is treated to the entire Lynryd Skynyrd "Freebird" song to some slow motion bloodshed.What can I say? This is about the most pointless movie I've ever seen. As an audience, we don't empathize with Baby, Spaulding, or Otis at all. We think they are disgusting and morally depraved but there is no answer as to why we should even care about them which is essential for keeping the audience emotionally involved in the story. During the humorous parts I couldn't even laugh because the characters were just people that I hated. I kept thinking, "I hope someone puts a bullet in all three of their skulls soon. I don't know how much longer I can watch this." I felt as tortured as their victims since I was essentially watching an hour and a half of three people who I hated from the beginning. In "House of 1000 Corpses" I really liked Sid Haig's "Captain Spaulding" character and thought he was the high point of the movie. In "Devil's Rejects" I couldn't stand him. If you've seen Oliver Stone's "Natural Born Killers" then you've seen "The Devil's Rejects" except that in this movie the characters aren't really that entertaining.Seeing how bad this movie was is a shock since I liked "House of 1000 Corpses" even though it was a little rough around the edges. I expected, coming into this film, that Rob Zombie would have honed his craft and whip up something even better than his previous effort. The truth is that his new film is much, MUCH worse than I could have possibly imagined.Folks, this ain't even worth a rental!

I had the pleasure of previewing this movie a few days before its official release. While I enjoyed "House of 1,000 Corpses" I think this follow-up sequel was far better. "House of 1,000 Corpses" was more like a carnival freak show with supernatural and unbelievable scenarios, whereas "The Devil's Rejects" was quite realistic and very brutal. This film is in the vein of "Helter Skelter", and 'Otis' pays homage to Charles Manson, even hauntingly resembling him. "The Devil's Rejects" is full of bloody carnage, perversion, filthiness, vulgarity, and the characters are sadistic and relentless serial killers. It is not for the feint of heart or the squeamish. There are some clever and quite humorous lines in the movie, along with some very disturbing ones as well. Sherri Moon Zombie gives a stellar performance as 'Baby' that is quite unforgettable. It was great to see P.J. Soles (Halloween) in this film, still looking beautiful as ever. Leslie Easterland, 'Mama Firefly', really gives an excellent performance as the perverted and disgusting mother of the clan. All of the actors did an amazing job in this movie and were very convincing as their characters.The cinematography of this film was really brilliant, and uses the 'swipe' and 'freeze-frame' methods, sometimes resembling a comic book adventure. The music was classic seventies rock, and fits well with the road trip theme. The gore was spectacular and realistic, and sometimes even disgusted me at times, which is hard to accomplish. I gave this movie a "10 out of 10" because it is full of spectacular, clever, and gruesome horror-movie fun! It contains scenes which seriously make the viewer cringe and feel sympathy for the victims, while hating the serial killers. I've never felt so much hatred and disgust towards the villains as I did during this film, and that goes to show you how convincing this movie really is! If you like Rob Zombie, seventies slashers, and a good horror movie plot, with edge of your seat/nail-biting scenes, then this is the movie for you! Check it out, its jaw-droppingly great!

A sequel to the 2003 film House of 1000 Corpses, Rob Zombie's 'The Devil's Rejects' is Bad-Ass! A Brutal, Unforgiving, Gruesome Horror Flick that works in most parts. 'The Devil's Rejects' Synopsis: The murderous, backwoods Firefly family takes to the road to escape a vengeful police force which isn't afraid of being as ruthless as their target.'The Devil's Rejects' is NOT meant for the faint-hearted. Its extremely dark, brutal & gruesome. But for those who enjoy violent films, 'The Devil Rejects' does deliver enough moments to earn itself a viewing. The characters are evil, their journey is unforgiving, but Rob Zombie's execution is well-done & appealing. Performance-Wise: Sid Haig, Bill Moseley & Sheri Moon Zombie are repulsive, but effective. William Forsythe is superb as the brave sheriff. The Late Matthew McGrory is decent.On the whole, 'The Devil's Rejects' is sadistic but fun.

Not the kind of movie I would normally even consider, but after recommendations from a couple of people who's opinion I trust, I rented the movie this weekend. Writer/Director Rob Zombie is obviously a great fan of 70s drive-in fare like "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" and "The Hills Have Eyes" and has learned his lessons well. He has a solid directorial style and a great ear for comically profane dialog - the banter in this movie reminds me of "Goodfellas" with maniacal Southern rednecks rather than East Coast Italian mobsters. And with a cast that includes William Forsythe, Sid Haig, Geoffrey Lewis, Ginger Lynn Allen, Priscilla Barnes, Steve Railsback, P.J. Soles, Mary Waronov, Deborah Van Valkenburgh, and Michael Berryman, and a Super 70s Soundtrack featuring The Allman Brothers, The James Gang, David Essex, and Lynyrd Skynyrd among others - you know Zombie has his pop cultural/cult movie references in order. I enjoyed this movie more for the humor than the for the "horror". The characters are all named after various Marx Brothers characters and while the gore is graphic and there are some truly chilling images in the movie, Zombie just misses the "beat" to put some of these sequences over the top, while the acting performances by a couple of the leads - namely Zombie look-alike Bill Mosely and Zombie's utterly babe-o-licious wife Sherri Moon Zombie - are less than stellar (although in Ms. Zombie's case it doesn't really matter - major eye candy!). So, a "qualified" recommendation for those who don't normally go for this kind of movie but who think they might enjoy it based on the description above. I thoroughly enjoyed it myself and think Rob Zombie is a genuinely talented filmmaker who will eventually hit one out of the ballpark if he keeps at it, which I'm sure he will. He comes pretty darned close with "The Devil's Rejects".

THE DEVIL'S REJECTS (2005) **1/2 Sid Haig, Bill Moseley, Sheri Moon, William Forsythe, Ken Foree, Matthew McGrory, Leslie Easterbrook, Geoffrey Lewis, Priscilla Barnes, Kate Norby, Lew Temple, Danny Trejo, Diamond Dallas Page, Elizabeth Daily, Tom Towles, Michael Berryman, P.J. Soles, Ginger Lynn Allen, Deborah Van Valkenburgh, Mary Woronov, Daniel Roebuck, Robert Trebor. Madman Rob Zombie's sordid sequel-of-sorts to his drive-in horror fest valentine to the '70s slasher flicks "House of 1,000 Corpses" showcases the definitely demented homicidal "Firefly" family (all the characters are inexplicably – well except for one attempted sequence anyway – named after Groucho Marx cinematic aliases) ensuing a trail of dead bodies, carnage and a nightmarish hellzapoppin existence while vengeance seeking sheriff Forsythe (in full gritty resolve) is out to settle a personal score for his slain sibling Towles. Giddy pleasure in playing name that iconic '70s guest star (Hey isn't that the chick from "Too Close For Comfort"?! and "Hey, check it out , it's the ghoul from "The Hills Have Eyes" !) Grotesque and ugly (in every sense of the words) with some truly unsettling sequences that get under the skin scores some genuine ick quotient squirrelly behavior and gut-wrenching violence yet the in cohesive plotting (I know, why nitpick a grindhouse fright fest right?!) and grandiose ending with "Freebird" scored by Sam Peckinpah gives one to wonder what Senor Zombie would truly do if he had a real screenplay than the one he summoned from this dark soul?

***May Contain Spoilers*** I, like many other fans of the horror genre, had extremely high hopes for this one. Looking back on it, maybe too high. Devil's Rejects is a horror/exploitation film done in the 70's maverick mode. Though it works for the most part, it takes away from the horror. This was a movie that could have been a lot better had there been more focus on the actual hunting, chasing and physical destruction of victims and less on how much the killer family loves each other. The movie starts out with a raid on the compound from House of a 1000 Corpses. There is a shootout and Madame Firefly is arrested by police, while Otis and Baby escape. They later rendezvous with Captain Spaulding at an obscure motel. Otis and Baby arrive and take a group of hostages, a traveling cover band. The scenes involving the hostages and some of their deaths are cool. I think the use of guns, though, hurts the horror aspect. I think knives or blunt objects should have been incorporated much more than it did. In other words, too many shootouts and too many easy deaths. The fact they were hostages at gunpoint is not scary. This is a cliché of action films not horror. I think the focus was on the vile nature of the event with comedic twist. There were some funny interactions between and among the characters. There were long drawn out parts that really were kind of a waste. I go straight to the ice cream scene in the van. This part really annoyed me. I'm still puzzled to the question why. After witnessing their disgusting acts, why would I feel anything at all for these people? Am I supposed to go "Awe, that's nice. Look they're having a family moment together"? This exemplifies my whole state in the movie. I was waiting for the movie to pickup. It never did. So that was my feeling after the movie...Unfulfilled, Disappointed.William Forsythe made the movie for me. Since he was the most gifted actor on the set, he really came through as the psycho cop. He was seemingly more brutal and more insane than the family he was hunting down. The focus of the movie was his hunt for the family as they were constantly on the run. He was dark and sadistic as well as humorous. Loved his character.Also I enjoyed Ken Foree. It seems like this horror movie vet has gotten some more phone calls and a subsequent career resurgence. His role was perhaps his most prominent since Texas Chainsaw Massacre III. He plays a 70's pimp and looks like he could have been right out of "Dolemite".Overall it wasn't an awful film. It was more original than the first one. It had better acting and it looked more focused on where Rob wanted to take the story. I felt despite the shortcomings of the first one; I felt the first one was a better "horror" movie of the two.6.5-7.0 out of 10

Only certain people can appreciate a movie like this. This was better than Rob's "House of 1000 Corpes". It was sleazy, gruesome, and actually funny at times. Otis, Baby, and Captain Spaulding really do make this movie. The crazy thing is that I was actually rooting for them in the end. Maybe this is sick but this is how the movie portrayed them. Come on, Baby likes tooty fruity ice cream. You can't help but to root for her. This movie also had the feeling to it that it was filmed in the 70's. It's hard to explain but it had that Texas Chainsaw, Friday the 13th, The Hills Have Eyes feel to it. All around a great flick for the horror fan who can appreciate it.

Not because it's "too scary" to watch alone in the dark, but simply because watching it with a group of friends will definitely enrich the whole twisted experience that is 'The Devil's Rejects', particularly the gruesome unrated version. This is hard-boiled, hard-edged, vile, gritty, gory and graphic gorefest at its finest.Hype and occasional missteps aside, I think Rob Zombie has created something quite unique and fun in the genre – a sort of clear-eyed but grossly over-the-top white-trash tits 'n' torture freak-show of gore, sex and violence en masse. What is most admirable is that Mr. Zombie actually seems to know what he is doing with the content instead of dishing out gore galore to create headlines. The fact is that the narrative, the characters and the no-nonsense approach all function by remaining clear-cut and down-to-earth while the madness of the story exponentially increases. So what is the story? It is a modern day Bonnie & Clyde in which the fugitive family Firefly indulge in orgies of gore and killing sprees on a road-trip in the South. All the while the Texas State Police contingent headed by Sheriff John Quincy Wydell (a raspy-voiced William Forsythe) slowly close in on the family – capture the offenders at any cost, even if that means enlisting gruesome bounty hunters. In this way the police are neither the pro- nor antagonists in the film and Forsythe aptly brings that delicious moral ambiguity to his Sheriff character.Conversely, the Firefly family certainly offer no moral safeground. They kill like they mean business – a sort of sick, seedy and sadistic business, true, but still business – and indeed you hold more disgust than sympathy for the quartet even though you are highly absorbed by them. On that note, Sheri Moon delivers the best performance by a playboy model I have ever seen. Danny Trejo also looks right at home in a sleazy thug character that pops up at one point in 'The Devil's Rejects' and the remaining cast look equally comfortable as hard-edged whitetrash.What undoubtedly contributes to the perpetual sense of immediate danger in the film is the kinetic, dizzying camera-work that Zombie opts for. It can be a cheap-shot to quicken the pace in films (I'm looking at you, Tony Scott) but in 'The Devil's Rejects' is all fits with the violent action style. But the film is not all action and certainly there is an underlying horror vibe that often bubbles up underneath the bottled lid and gives rise to truly frightening scenarios such as Forsythe chasing after someone with an axe. It ticks off some horror clichés during the way but always with humour and rawness as opposed to the unimaginative run-of-the-mill teen horrors that treat the same scenarios as dutiful inclusions.Ultimately The Devil's Rejects is mostly flashy and fun and would possibly fall apart at closer analysis. But Mr. Analysist himself – Roger Ebert – gave the film two thumbs up which should serve as a mark of its high entertainment factor. Its cast and content both tread a fine line between straight and camp and tip over into both categories at several points. Finally, the end scene is one of the strongest I have ever seen, no hyperbole, and it elevates Rejects even further above generic gross-out formula.7 out of 10

First of all lets get this films major flaw out of the way. There's no-one in this film to root for! Is the audience supposed to side with the cruel sadistic psycho family? And if so, why? They humiliate and torture an innocent family of Banjo players, and then when the sheriff does the same to them, we're supposed give them sympathy! Yeah right.The film starts brilliantly with the opening shootout between the psycho gang and the cops, unfortunately it can't keep up the momentum for the duration. Director Zombie hasn't a clue about pacing and as a result the film kind of limps to its conclusion. What should have been a heart-racing final 20 minutes (chainsaw anyone?) is swapped for a rushed and silly climax. Also the film stops to many times for Tarantino-lite dialogue. Conversations about Chicken f*****g, Princess Leia fantasies, and Groucho Marks are all very well, but not when they grind the film to a halt.Zombie certainly likes to riff on his favourite horror movies.There's plenty of similarity with TCM, Last House on the Left, and The Hills Have Eyes. The film IS very violent and some of the more sadistic scenes will have some viewers heading for the exit. One scene in particular has the character of Baby forcing two women to hit each other for her amusement. Its a nasty and distasteful scene, one that this particular viewer found quite sickening.On a plus note the film looks great, with a washed out gritty look to the photography. Zombie really captures the 70's horror vibe, making it rather frustrating as its obvious the film could have been so much better.The acting in the film is superb considering the content, with William Forsythe stealing the film as the God-fearing sheriff on a rampage. Director Zombie can obviously handle actors well, and his film looks great, its just a shame the rest isn't up to scratch. It'll be interesting to see what he comes up with for his 3rd movie.

The Devil's Rejects has such a powerful name that the movie itself had to live up to... and it exceeded my expectations.A fun sequel that plays out more like a police thriller than a horror movie.Well balanced between gritty, over-the-top performances and fun, light-hearted-ness. It's hard to say whether this film tops its predecessor when their inspirations reside in two different area codes.I find this is a better film, but this and House of 1000 Corpses seem to serve different purposes.In any case, The Devil's Rejects is a more realized and stylized film that dishes out an enjoyable viewing experience.