The Strangers, follows a couple as they stay in a vacant vacation home after some relationship issues not realizing they will soon be fighting for their lives as three strangers are hunting them around the house to kill and terrorize. The film is pretty gruesome considering these were based on true events. This film is okay though keeps the suspense. The movie was a bit dragged and took a while for the killers to prey even though most scenes they could have killed the couple on the spot. Though, I guess that's just part of their game. I would recommend the film for those looking for a light thrill.Kristen: "Why are you doing this to us?"
Dollface: "Because you were home."-The Strangers

The story can be so-so, but how it´s cut, directed and edited makes up. The pacing is perfect for a movie like this. But the aspect that strikes the most for me is its atmosphere. As a perfect late night movie, this one will creep you out mostly thanks to its unnerving look.

Like many, I went into this (knowing) the basics of the story. That being said, I found the first half of the film quite suspenseful and creepy by modern movie standards. The story begins by developing the relationship between it's two stars, then separating them and introducing the terror. This worked, and worked very well in it's ability to set up (and scare the hell out of) the viewers. Unfortunately, after we have established what is taking place, the story seems to slow to a simmer, and eventually fizzles out. The second half of the film is filled with horror movie cliché's and cheap scare tactics, almost to the point of boredom... It's a shame, because I haven't been a fan of slasher films since the eighties, and I REALLY wanted to "Like" this film.My recommendation would be to watch the first half of the film, then go and sit by yourself in a cabin, somewhere in the woods. The effect would be much better, and the film would serve it's purpose.

It would be so easy to dismiss the very deliberate pacing of this film as pedestrian, but in this day and age of gratuitous violence and constant gore, this film relies on the ability to slowly torment you, as toy watch the hideous way in which the young couple are subjected to the night from Hell.At the time I genuinely did find this a very unsettling, unnerving watch, going home to an empty house after this was unsettling.Ignore those that call it boring, trust me, it isn't, it's paced in a way that throws you off guard.No clear begining, or end, just a series of random events. It's a grim movie. 7/10

THE STRANGERS is a classic example of the whole being greater than the sum of the parts. It has a decent but small cast, a low budget, and no splashy special effects. Further, it isn't the least bit original. Panicked, isolated victims fighting for survival against masked sociopaths is a time-honored story that has been told in one way or another in a great many films -- HE'S OUT THERE, HUSH, and YOU'RE NEXT immediately come to mind. But here's the thing about THE STRANGERS. It's not just scary. It's really, really scary.What sets this movie, written and directed by Brian Bertino (THE MONSTER), apart from the aforementioned home-invasion flicks is hard to define. It's fairly well executed, decently written, and well shot, but so are many other films that don't achieve this level of suspense.Perhaps it's the good performances by Liv Tyler and Scott Speedman. Tyler is a talented actress who expertly embodies unnerved, and she plays to that right from the beginning of the movie, setting the stage for nail biting thrills before the real action even starts. Speedman also does a bit more than one would expect, infusing his character's obligatory, horror-movie machismo with just enough uncertainty to make him acutely relatable.Perhaps it's that Bertino has written characters who do what you or I might do under stress that pushes this effort to the next level. When Tyler hears the plaintive voice of a woman who's knocking on the door, does she open it? No. She throws the deadbolt and finds a phone. When Speedman gets ahold of a shotgun and shells, does he tromp around looking for trouble? No. He gets his back into a corner and waits for the trouble to come to him.Perhaps it's the measured calm of the psycho-killers that works on our nerves so effectively. As relentless as they are, rather than display the frenetic aggression we expect, these masked savages take their time, savor their own evil, and seem to enjoy standing quietly unseen in the background and simply ... staring.Whatever it is about THE STRANGERS that's so efficient at ramping up the anxiety, you'll need a little bit of patience to experience it. The first 20 minutes is devoted to setting up an interpersonal dynamic between Speedman and Tyler that arguably isn't altogether necessary to the story but that doesn't hurt beyond delaying things a bit. But once the action really gets underway at about the 20-minute mark, it's white knuckles the whole rest of the way.When I choose a horror movie, I am looking for one thing: to be frightened. That's exactly what I found with THE STRANGERS. Recommendation: Lock the doors, close the blinds, and watch.

This movie was flat out horrible. I went to see this movie and the whole theatre laughed at this movie for its horrible pop-ups and lack of plot, violence, and acting. I understand the whole "This could happen to you" appeal of the movie but at least work on some good scary moments. Not to mention the main villain sounds like a retarded 6 year-old. Finally the scene in which the Christians give the killers some pamphlets was a completely pointless scene which added nothing to the film what soever and was a waste of 2-4 minutes of my life, even more so than the rest of this movie. This movie is horrible please don't watch it.

We all know the plot: young couple, isolated vacation home, people in masks. Yet from the start of 'The Strangers' it's clear that this film is a different. In today's bloodthirsty society, horror films are often reduced to nothing more than gore-filled gross-out fests. While many young teens may rejoice at such films, many of us still long for original, suspenseful, and, yes, terrifying horror movies. 'The Strangers' came so close.There is plenty here to recommend: Director Bryan Bertino shows himself to be a patient and smart director. Rather than going for just cheap thrills, he wisely builds tension up to near-breaking point. The feeling of suspense and dread that covers the whole film is classic. Both Liv Tyler and Scott Speedman do well in their leading roles, and the strangers themselves are things of pure terror... yet that's where the film loses some of its commendation. The strangers at times seem that they can't possibly be human because they are made to be almost supernatural in their abilities. They appear and disappear seemingly at will and instantly- a power the young couple probably wished they had but don't because they are, after all, HUMANS. It's a simple mistake used to give the audience one of those cheap thrills that were otherwise so wisely avoided. What makes it sad is that in every other aspect, 'The Strangers' is chillingly realistic and terrifyingly possible. Every time those strangers come and go like ghosts of some kind, it makes the audience sit back once more and say, 'Ah, well, it's just a movie." That's too bad.Still, 'The Strangers' is much better than your average horror fare. It's at last a new movie that realizes what you don't show can be even more scary than what you do. Still, one hopes that Mr. Bertino can touch up the mistakes from this film and , and deliver a really great horror movie next time around. 7/10 stars! Jay Addison

Can we finally acknowledge that horror films have largely turned into another genre, that of sadism? There is a huge difference between film bloodshed and gore that is a part of a horrific/suspenseful scenario, and that which is done so the audience can watch people undergo agony, as in the 'Hostel' franchise. I can't take it. It is not scary; it's just disgusting. As in this film. Take away the idiot decisions about the gun, going outside, leaving your girl alone in an isolated home after a freak comes by, calling for help, etc., and there's the making for good, scary suspense. Turn it into an exercise in extended sadism, and it's purely gratuitous in a disturbing way. Do people actually think it's 'scary' or 'suspenseful' to watch the girl beg for her life, as she sees her guy stabbed and stabbed? It's not. It's unrelenting misery and there's something way wrong with anyone who thinks it's good filmmaking. The strangers were extremely terrifying, and there are psychopaths out there. But this nightmare of torture and sadism is NOT a great scary movie (which I love as a genre), or suspenseful. It's mean and ugly, and what scares me is how torture is the new horror.

*** Warning *** Spoilers *** For such a short film, this managed to cram in every senseless cliché of the so-called horror genre. '...Girl runs from bad guys, girl trips, girls falls and hurts herself, girl whimpers, duh...' No character development, no depth, no sympathy for the characters. '... bad guys are harassing your house and threatening you, so OF COURSE you get hysterical, cry, and seek out every spooky noise...' So bad guys are hacking at your front door with an ax, you've got a loaded shotgun in your hand, but you don't shoot, you throw a chair at the door, Oh Wait, I've got a gun! But by the time you think to shoot the bad guys are gone. So your under attack from bad guys and it's just you, your girlfriend, and a loaded shotgun, so instead of hunkering down and letting them come to you to get shot, you leave your girlfriend alone in the un-secured house while you wander off to the tool shed to find and old ham radio. Sure, makes sense. So you go visit your friends and someone shoots out your windshield, do you: A- drive off fast and call 911, B- call 911 then run in the house to check on your friends, or C- dust yourself off, sneak into the house quietly, without ever bothering to wonder why your friend's car is wrecked, who's pickup truck that is, why the house is trashed, don't bother turning off the loud stereo, or calling out your friends' names, in fact don't even bother to look behind you to see if maybe the people who shot out your windshield are still around. That's right - C !?!Everyone who died in this movie deserved to die for being such mindless, spineless, insipid, whimpering idiots. Maybe if you've never seen a movie before, ever, or if you've had recent head trauma, or maybe if you're Amish this movie might scare you. Maybe. Don't waste your time or money.REVISION::: it's now Sunday 6/1. I originally posted the above comment after an advance screening of this movie late-night on thursday 5/29 (because I work at a movie theater I get to see all the movies before they're released.) So I've noticed something peculiar... there are, as of now, about 8 pages of comments on this film. About 3 pages of comments before mine (meaning before the movie came out) all gave The Strangers 9 or 10 stars, glowing reviews, and taglines like "best horror movie ever," "scariest film ever," and "awesome." But then, if you look at the dates of submission, 95% of all the comments posted after the movie was released say it's lackluster at best, anticlimactic, boring, lame, and not worth watching. So, I wonder, is that a coincidence, or maybe, just maybe, were all those people who posted great comments prior to the movie's release doing it for some other reason? Were they being paid to hype the film? Do they work for the production company? Or is it all just a big coincidence? Hmmm....

The horror genre is probably the most perplexing genre in the cinematic medium, not because of its inherent qualities but because of the countless ways in which a movie stops being scary and starts rolling eyes. In a successful scary movie, one can expect a finite amount of characterisation mixed with tension and adequate construction of dense atmospheres and antagonists if there should be any. In The Strangers, such a sweet spot is achieved many times throughout, and it's during these moments that writer/director Bryan Bertino shows that he knows how to craft an eerie and downright scary experience to be part of. Yet too often does the film collapse under its own weight as laziness creeps in. Outside of Bertino's more refreshing techniques, he irritatingly resorts to tired clichés, dull narrative and predictable storytelling; it's a mixed bag of brilliantly executed originality and formulaic, cookie cutter banality.Taking place for the most part in a single summer home, The Strangers is a claustrophobic nightmare that persists in its will to take that image of safety (home) and turn it into a confinement of horror. Through this general idea Bertino crafts an extremely effective way in which to engage the viewer; the warm comforting log cabin fireplace, the folk music, the backdrop of isolation and tranquil wilderness, all combining to create a sense of false security that always reeks of foreboding doom. Focusing the first twenty minutes on troubled couple Kristen McKay and James Hoyt, the script introduces us to the domestic heart of the story; a squabble and misunderstanding between two lovers. Not only does it add to the light hearted feel of the opening sequences but it develops the characters into heart-driven, fully empathetic beings, and when terror comes knocking at the door, we too are feeling the fear.Unfortunately for all the good that the director does through the film's first act, the quality suddenly begins to dip shortly after the climax of tension has been reached. The second act of the story is much less coherent and more bumbling in its pace; there are genuine scares scattered throughout as a result of these freaky little visitors to the couple's cabin at four in the morning, yet the general structure and workings behind the scenes draw too much attention to themselves at key points. Everything from the screaming female tripping and breaking her ankle to the hereditary 'split up' of the pair for no logical reason but to satisfy the already developed structure frame are here, and it's irksome more than terrifying. Through this mix of studied technique and less than inspiring storytelling which too often puts structure ahead of natural storytelling, The Strangers feels satisfying in its ability to deliver horror, but simply doesn't do enough to cover up the glaring holes in its unconvincing façade.As characters, Bertino neglects his three catalysts of fear to mere device-like movement only; they are facades and masks, and no real identity to them is ever given. This technique works well during the film's earlier moments when the director's aim is to scare out of their unknown presence, yet when the feature moves on and on and the three masks are exploited at every time to scare, their lack of motivation hurts the film's ability to sustain suspense. As protagonists, Kristen and James are of standard horror movie build; she is fragile and prone to screaming, and James, although a lot less macho than most male leads, is just as ill-fated to poor decision making. Individually, neither of them ever show any real sense of compelling attributes to cling onto, yet as a pair they at least share enough dynamics and chemistry to warrant the movie's key moments of characterisation.Thankfully the movie doesn't end in a big bang and there is little in the way of cliché to be found leading up to it; it's unenlightening sure, but it's got enough conviction to carry off the film into positive light. This hollow note that finishes it all off is representative of the film as a whole, and of course Bertino's skills as a director of horror. Despite obvious flaws in storytelling, the majority of what is on display here is genuinely thrilling at its peaks and mildly compelling in its valleys. Through a startling score that punctuates the atmosphere poignantly and photography that captures the eeriness of these strangers' ominous presence, Bertino employs all the tricks in the book to deliver the scares, and while the whole product as a whole feels more like an exercise in technique, there's nevertheless plenty to behold regardless of any inconsistencies in narrative. Taken as a whole, The Strangers is a strong first attempt from newcomer writer/director Bryan Bertino who shows definite flair for crafting suspenseful scenes of terror and bringing out strong emotion from all his cast.A review by Jamie Robert Ward. For more reviews of all the latest movies please visit: http://www.invocus.net

Apart from the "based on true ..." thing on the beginning, which by the way is my new big NO for a movie ... I just can't stand that hypocritical use of this phrase. Every other movie is than based on true events. Most of the romantic comedies are, teen comedies etc. etc. At least some parts are true or did happen in real life, which is why the script writer "thought" them up ...But I should stop ranting about that (and the fact, that a voice over at the beginning of the movie, isn't entirely "correct" ... well you see). This movie promises to scare you and it delivers. Mood-wise it stays close to a french movie called "Ils" (Them), which was a great suspense thriller/horror. I also liked the relationships between the two main characters. You could say it's standard fare, but it has great framing and lighting (sound design is "scary" too).

A couple drives out to the house in the country which belonged to the guy's father in order to spend a quiet night together, until strange people who wear doll masks show up and terrorize them. There's the plot. Like the recent "Vacancy," a horror film does not need much more than that.The film builds a lot of tension and, for the most part, avoids jump-in-your-seat scare tactics. If you are expecting torture and gore in the line of "Hostel," you won't really find it. Are the silent, mask-wearing villains sinister? Yes, at times they are. But what actually gives the film its effect is not so much its goings on as its conclusion, which is depressing, hopeless, and contains no redeeming value.What I mean by no redeeming value is that the kind of final "tie in" most of us have come to expect by the end of a movie ("Ah, so that was the villain's motivation") never comes. All the horror visited upon the hapless couple is unexplained, as if it came from a dark void in the human character. What I dislike about this is that it implies this darkness is somehow inherent, and merely to be accepted at face value. Save for the cases of a few highly disturbed individuals capable of something like that (i.e. Ted Bundy), I do not think most people will find this assumption realistic.But hey, it's only a horror film, right? We watch it to laugh at the "plot holes" (don't you know pointing out a horror film's logical "inconsistencies" makes you a genius?!) and shake our heads in obnoxious smugness when a character runs in the "wrong" direction. Better yet, let us simply laugh out loud at the most harrowing displays of human suffering because we are too immature to enjoy the film for what it is--to let it do its job without interfering because we're too busy trying to bolster a non-existent American ego at the expense of a film.People at my theatre laughed as well, but that had more to do with the general character of the audience than with the movie itself. The movie is, indeed, frightening, albeit leaves one distraught and unsatisfied. But is it frightening enough to be a masterpiece? I would hesitate to compare it to the likes of certain other classics."The Strangers" is a good horror film, done in classic style (no moron teenagers, sex-crazed teen whores, happy-go-lucky interracial gatherings of high school friends, alternarock soundtracks or contrived plot twists) which, save for its depressing conclusion about human nature, works well. Viewers who enjoy this will also enjoy "Vacancy," "Cabin Fever," and the "Hostel" films.Now on we go to the hordes of intellectual midgets who will point out why this movie was either a) "funny," b) illogical or c) "the best, sickest, coolest movie ever."

The Strangers is a movie that delivers everything it promises it would. It scares you. Simple as that. Instead of relying on buckets of gore and an over-contrived premise, it keeps things simple and thats what makes it work. For an hour and a half, the viewer is subjected to a slowly mounting sense of dread that just keeps building without ever pulling back. The story never falls victim to the usual horror movie clichés, but at the same time , it doesn't make any ridiculous attempts to go against them. Perhaps the best thing that the movie has going for it is it's believability. There isn't really any thing to distract the viewer from buying into the premise wholeheartedly. Considering that this is the director's first ever movie, it's a feat that's even more impressive. This is the kind of movie you shouldn't watch at home alone in the dark.

Here we have a horror movie which sadly is much more laughable than scary. The characters are stupid. The story, not that there actually is much of a story, is stupid. There are no big scares to jolt you out of your seat. Really there's nothing to prevent you from yawning or flat-out dozing off. When the movie ended I was stunned to find out it was less than 90 minutes long. It seemed much longer. It honestly feels interminable. Please just let the killers put their victims out of their misery. Then we who have the misfortune to be watching can be put out of our misery as well.So the setup is that a young couple, played by Scott Speedman and Liv Tyler, are spending the night in some house out in the middle of nowhere. There's a knock on the door. A really, really loud knock. That's about the most chilling thing the movie has to offer, a loud knock on the door. Anyhow our young couple ends up being terrorized by three people in goofy masks. Everyone involved, goofy mask people and their potential victims, acts very stupidly. Our victims have apparently never seen any horror movies as, rather than wait in the house with the freaking shotgun they have, they decide to go running around outside in the dark. Because running around in the dark always ends well in these situations, no? Our silly mask people are very lucky that their prey are so stupid because they are quite stupid themselves. If anyone involved in this story had any working brain cells the whole thing would've been over in five minutes. And what a blessed relief that would have been. Instead it goes on and on, Liv Tyler just keeps screaming and the would-be killers just keep, well, standing there. They never really do anything. Ooh, look a guy with a bag on his face is standing in the corner! Scary, right? Nope, not really. There is no action, no drama, no tension. It's all very predictable right from the beginning, probably not helped by the fact the movie basically gives away its ending right at the start. We go through all the horror movie clichés as the movie limps meekly towards a thoroughly unsatisfying end. Boring, unoriginal, quite stupid. That's The Strangers in a nutshell.