The Last of the Mohicans is a timeless tale of the 18th century frontier and the virtue and tragedy that results when the uniquely different cultures of the French, English, Native Americans, and colonists collide.  Based on James Fenimore Cooper's literary genius, The Last of the Mohicans transports the viewer back to a time of America's youth in a brilliant, mesmerizing fashion.The story centers on an eclectic band of travelers, thrust together by fate and their attempt to escape danger and reach the besieged British fort, William-Henry.  Deep within the western forests of colonial New York, Hawkeye, the white, adopted son and brother of the Mohicans, tries desperately to avoid an ever-increasing war.  He is forced to act when, along with his Mohican father and brother, he encounters two endangered sisters trying to reach their father, a British colonel in command at the fort.  Hawkeye, the rustic tracker, and Cora, the refined, eldest daughter, are naturally drawn together (much to the dismay of Major Heyward, an intriguing character who also vies for Cora's affections).  Tensions and passions arise between the characters as a whirlwind of conflict and violence rages around them.  In the end, each character must face heart-wrenching decisions that will affect their very lives, and the lives of those around them.I especially love the way that the film depicts the perspectives of each of the groups involved.  Whether the group is competing for military superiority or simple existence in their homeland, the viewer is given a true sense of their mindset in the midst of a great conflict.  It is difficult to say one side or the other is completely to blame for the events that take place.  Even the story's main antagonist, Magua (wonderfully portrayed by Wes Studi, Dances with Wolves) draws in a fair amount of empathy.The Last of the Mohicans is a marvelous, visual adventure that thoroughly reveals the horrors of warfare, the wildness of a chaste frontier, and the fated and ill-fated romances of the characters involved.

This movie won the Oscar for best sound. I have little respect for the Oscars. Best score ever, some of the best photography ever. Day-Lewis gives a powerful performance whose only fault is that he has done better. Copper's sprawling story comes to life with powerful action scenes and emotional close-ups. The final chase is stunning to watch. 10/10

I think the soundtrack for The Last of the Mohicans is great. I wish the movie lived up to the music. The first half of this film is fairly dull. The second half picks up a little bit, but still trails behind where it should have been. The battle scenes are clumsy, they spend too much time showing people walking/running, the romantic angle feels under-developed, and the characters come off as one-dimensional. I even found Daniel Day-Lewis' performance to be lacking, which surprised me. I remember not being impressed the first time I saw The Last of the Mohicans years ago. I remain unimpressed.

Three trappers protect a British Colonel's daughters in the midst of the French and Indian War.I must not have been paying attention or something while watching this film. I love Daniel Day-Lewis, and I think Michael Mann is certainly an above average director (if not top tier, at least within reach of it). But I really just found this film to be rather boring and without much to hold my interest.I also love historical films, and while I understand this is a fictional story, I appreciated the attempt to show the motivations of the British and British-Americans. I feel like the film needed more of that to really drive the context home.And I should be interested by Mohicans, since the last of the Mohicans (their descendants) live within an hour of me in Shawano, Wisconsin. But this film just did not sell that.

It's an exceptional rendering of Cooper's old tale about the so-called French and Indian Wars, which in Europe was called the Seven Years War. There's the merest hint of it here but this provided the springboard for the Revolutionary War. England was at war with France and was nearly broke, in part from defending its colonies in America. England imposed taxes on the colonies to help pay its debt. The taxes included taxes on tea, and the colonials saw it as "taxation without representation." I guess we know where that led.Back to the movie. Wow -- what scale! The photography by Dante Spinotti is just short of magnificent. He gets it just right without revealing how much effort he puts into each shot. He's easy going too, the DP on two movies I worked in. Michael Mann is in directorial control. Together they have committed to celluloid a memorable shot of Fort William Henry under siege by the French. The first we see of the fort is nothing but what looks like a distant fireworks display on the Fourth of July -- behind the tree line, some vermilion flashes of light reflected from clouds of smoke and seconds later the barely discernible pops of cannon fire.I won't go on about the plot. It's complicated. And it's not unfamiliar: the man of nature saving the innocents who represent civilization. Shane was such a figure. So were Hondo and Tarzan.French and English exchange cannon fire and occupy fortified positions. They march through the dank forests in step, wrapped in bright red jackets and topped by peculiar decorative hats. The Huron Indians who have sided with the French have no such encumbrances. They're half naked, they know the terrain, and they have the advantages that all irregulars have, whether Lawrence of Arabia's Bedouin or those now fighting an asymmetric war in the Middle East.Daniel Day Lewis is credible in the role of the white child adopted by the Mohican Indians. Madeleine Stowe is stunning. The battle scenes are staged well and are particularly brutal. Wes Studi, as the bitter Huron Magwah, rips open the chest of a British officer and raises the still beating heart in his fist.And Studi gives an impressive performance. With his top knot and war paint and pebbled complexion, he's compellingly ugly. His character is a Huron and the Hurons spoke an Iroquoian language, entirely different from the Alqonquian of the Mohicans. But nobody seems comfortable speaking any Indian language, and for good reason. Mohican is already extinct and all of the Iroquoian languages are either extinct or severely endangered. There were no living speakers of either language to coach the actors, and both languages are hard to speak. Iroquoian has a series of consonants that can be written as "ktspyjam" -- as in "cat's pyjamas." Well, it looks like that was a little off topic. I don't know why I do that. I guess it's because the voices tell me to.Michael Mann deserves credit if for no other reason that his directorial style is classic. No glitz, no shaky cameras, no instantaneous editing. Well, not much quick editing anyway, and only a few purposeful shots in slow motion.The writers and the crew have taken what could have been -- and has been, in previous versions -- a stiff and uninvolving action tale, and turned it into rather more than that. It's a good movie.

This is one of only a very few films that I cannot stop watching once I start.  As others have stated, the music, the scenery totally engage you from the beginning.  The love story was not in the original Cooper story but in this case, certainly improves it.Recently, my husband and myself and two other couples, all strangers to each other, at a dinner while on vacation in Hawaii started talking about films. I mentioned that the review we were seeing, South Pacific, that the story in the musical did not stand the test of time.  However, the Godfather does and The Last of the Mohicans is one movie I cannot tear myself away from.  All the others stated that they felt the same and all of us own the DVD and the CD.It is amazing to me that this film was deemed not Oscar worthy, but what other films made in 1992 can you remember?

The movie has great music. Before I knew this movie, I knew the music. If there's D. D Lewis, acting is on the top.

The cinematography is amazing in this movie. The shots are well-thought out and almost every scene has its own beauty, especially the waterfall scenes. This isn't enough to save it, but it's nice.The main problem is that there is no chemistry between Lewis and Stowe. Lewis seems so intent on creating an inner world for his character that he forgets there are other people around him. Stowe was OK, Studi was good, Steven Waddington was very good and may be the best thing about it. But all of the characters are flat and uninteresting.It's a good story, and I'm saddened to see it mangled by this attempt. It's as if the makers of this movie wanted us to know this was LITERATURE and must be taken SERIOUSLY, and therefore everything is BIG and DRAMATIC and STENTORIAN. There is precious little subtlety, which is odd for an adaptation of a classic novel. I always cringe when a good battle scene is placed in an inferior movie, because all the work that went into that scene to make it look so good could have been put into the rest of the movie.