I enjoyed this. It had been one of those movies I had heard about but had never gotten around to. There are times when it seems that Matt Damon is such a cold fish (ala The Good Shepherd), that one has trouble getting connected to him. In this film he is really believable as a man who has all the training of a killing machine, but a soft side that bears exploring. The character is put into situations he can't understand but can only react to. He has compassion but little understanding. What an interesting role. If there's a shortcoming, it's that the motivations of the bad folks aren't all that clear. It's still a delight to watch his relationship with his I-only- need-a-ride partner develop. There is a level of subtlety that most films of this type don't have. The car chases are spectacular but, for once, they backed down on the pyrotechnics. I appreciated this.

Matt Damon plays Jason Bourne, a highly trained, U.S. spy whose wounded body is found floating in an ocean by a fishing boat. With no memory of who he is and what happened to him, he has to piece together how he came to be shot in the back and left for dead; and most importantly, who and what he is. But Damon must do it fast, as time is running out and the ones he worked for are sending assassins to find him. "The Bourne Identity" is top-notch spy movie, filled with action, suspense, and a mystery that is slowly explained as the movie goes on. Matt Damon is well suited for the role, and with the help of fancy editing, he comes off as a martial arts expert who can quickly dispatch multiple foes in a few seconds. The movie moves along very fast, making the near two hour running time feel like it's thirty minutes shorter than it is. Fast pacing and a likable hero (Damon) are two big strengths of this movie that fans of spy/thriller/suspense movies should not miss. My most memorable, movie moment of "The Bourne Identity" is the scene when Damon evades the police with an original Mini car! Hey, it's not the car, it's the driver that counts.Mannysmemorablemoviemoment

I enjoy the great special effects of movies such as the Star Wars series and other action packed movies such as the Die Hard and James Bond films, but the special effects are just as much a part of the plot and story lines as the writing. It is refreshing to watch a film that does not rely on excessive special effects to tell its story. The Bourne Identity (2002) is one such film. The Bourne Identity stars Matt Damon as Jason Bourne, a man found shot and lying in the ocean by fisherman who has lost his memory. He struggles to regain his strength on the ship and he tries to piece his life back together. He hits a dead end and finds that he must leave the boat. Bourne has a bank account number that leads him to a safety deposit box filled with money and fake passports. Bourne realizes that he must be a secret agent for some country. He hooks up with Marie, played by Franka Potente. As it turns out, Jason Bourne was a secret agent who was shot because he did not fulfill his mission, to Assassinate Wombasi, an African Leader, played by Adewale Akinnouye-Abaje. There were agents who planned to kill Bourne because he has now been considered a rogue agent. One familiar face, Julia Stiles, plays Nicolette, an agent in an operator type position. There was also the agent played by Clive Owen, the Professor, who was one of the agents sent to hunt Borne down and kill him. Packed with action and suspense this film is wonderfully shot. There were flash cuts in certain action packed parts of the film. Also, during the action there was minimal music playing in the background to add to the realistic feel to the film. I can say that I enjoyed watching a film that did not need to blast techno or other type of music to express the action of the film. The use of less sound made the film enjoyable. You can concentrate on the action on the screen and not worry about who made the song and other things that can be distracting when watching a film. These flash cuts and the use of less music added a dramatic feel to the film because Borne can be a real person, this can happen to any agent who defies the government and choose not to follow orders. They can be hunted down!

In 1962, Hollywood introduced British spy James Bond who made an iconic name in the action genre, and the legacy of this household action hero continues today through the longest running film franchise In the 1980s, we were introduced to Bruce Willis' John McClane, a New York cop who served justice as he took a dozen of German terrorists at the Nakatomi Plaza one by one, and his astonishing charisma has lead to a spawn of a few sequels. Matt Damon as Jason Bourne is what some describe as just a modern day James Bond. But with a powerful portrayal by Damon, he feels more like an original character, a spy agent with a highly trained set of fighting skills in both gun and hand-to- hand combat. In this spy action thrilled directed by Doug Liman, Matt Damon steps into what is arguably his most charismatic role aside from his Oscar-nominated performance in 'Good Will Hunting'. Damon plays the title character Jason Bourne, a CIA agent who wakes up on a boy after being rescued by a group of fisherman. Suffering from amnesia and covered in bullet wounds, he travels to Switzerland where he uses his old bank account to put together the puzzle pieces of his identity. He is soon assisted by German woman Marie (played by Franka Potente) to search for his identity but soon find himself by hunted down by ruthless assassins by Black Ops agent Alexander Conklin (played by Chris Cooper). Bourne must escape from the vicious criminals while searching for answers to what they want him for. Not very many action flicks offer a spectacular mix of tense action and mystery like this action thriller. From the hyper-kinetic action sequences, to it's slick editing, to the highly compelling plot, to the overall likability of the lead character; this film stops at almost nothing to deliver the strong, visceral experience viewers come to root for. In an age where many films of the action genre struggle to find a solid balance of both action and coherent plot development, this one manages to stand out. The plot moves through the title character's search of his identity and the conspiracy that surrounds, and what ensues is a nice array of tension and unpredictable scenes. The fiercest moments show Jason Bourne engaging in brutal martial arts combat against the baddies, complete with stunning choreography and camera-work that, while a bit shaky, successfully express the intensity of the scenes. One of the most intense moments lies in a beautifully shot staircase shootouts scene. The film definitely has a sweet taste in action, and it delivers quite well especially with Matt Damon who's quite energizing vibrant in the lead role. Franka Potente is also very strong as her character who makes a competent supporting character rather than a typical damsel-in-distress. Praise can also be given to Chris Cooper as the main villain. He may not serve as a memorable antagonist, but that's not the point as the lead character's primary goal is not to capture or kill the villain but to search for the reason why he (the antagonist) trying to take him down.The Bourne Identity is tense, thrilling, and purely entertaining experience for action fans everywhere. This film is easily a household name in Matt Damon's career as well as the action genre of the 2000s. For all looking for a great popcorn flick, this one is worth checking out.

The Bourne Identity is the first film in the hit spy trilogy starring Matt Damon as an apparent ex CIA assassin. It comes off as a slick and smart film, avoiding the usual action clichés and having very intelligent ideas that work. The film is high octane stuff mainly thanks to the interesting premise, excellent performances and superb action set pieces.The plot sees fishermen recover a man's body out at sea with two bullet holes in his back. He is suffering from amnesia and doesn't remember who he was, later discovering his name to be Jason Bourne. A laser device planted in his hip shows him his bank account which is full of money and a gun. Bourne then finds himself hunted by the police and, with the help of a woman named Marie, he searches for answers in Paris which lead all the way to the CIA. The story flows extremely well and has a lot of twists that help in making things more interesting. The general story about Bourne is just an interesting one and you can never really tell where the film is going to end up, which makes it all the more gripping.The cast is exceptional. Matt Damon is excellent as Bourne, perfectly portraying him as confused and conflicted but still very clever. He does a great job of handling the action, intense and emotional scenes with astuteness. Franka Potente is equally good as Marie. She comes off as likable and her normality gives her a realistic edge, she makes for a sensitive and courageous companion for Bourne. Chris Cooper does an incredibly solid job as the CIA man who is tracking Bourne's every move. He shows him as a cold calculating figure without removing all of his humanity. Brian Cox is great as always as the intense Abbott, Cox's sheer presence shows intellect and cunning. Julia Stiles is very good as informer Nicky. Clive Owen is very good too as the stoic assassin the 'Professor'.The action scenes are brilliant. The fights scenes are a lot more realistic than most films, which makes them fast, exciting and surprisingly brutal. The fight with the would-be assassin and the climax in particular are excellently shot. The car chase is a highlight, it just feels naturally gritty while still being a thrilling and entertaining set piece. The characters are well fleshed out which is something most action films miss out on. Bourne is an interesting person and as he finds out more so do the audience, he eventually does feel like a real spy and thanks to Damon's intense portrayal he does appear to be fighting for his life. The same goes for the realism as the characters do come across as somewhat vulnerable. The film itself is shot really well, it captures Paris very beautifully and espionage atmosphere is nicely heavy. Its surprising how well paced it is, it seemingly moves quickly but still has time to add hints of melancholy and emotion to the story itself. It is a brilliant style of relying on story and characters with bursts of action and energy, which harken back to older action films. The score by John Powell is great as it is both nicely moody and rather exhilarating when it needs to be. The Bourne Identity is tense, thrilling and emotive in equal doses as its one of the finest spy films around.

Maybe its me, but it gives me a familiar feeling when I see a guy in a turtleneck sweater, an overcoat and a rifle.  I know its a cliche, but why would this movie re-invent the medium anyway? I also like car chases through foreign cities, passports and accents.  So with all that intact, I liked 'The Bourne Identity' very much.  It has all the elements of the genre.  You know what you're getting and you get what you want. There is no point in going over the plot.  It gets confusing about 3/4 in but it does not matter that much.  Its fun for two hours and that's it.
I have been a huge fan of Franka Potente since becoming mildly obsessed with 'Run Lola Run' and she does not disappoint.  She has some real chemistry with Matt Damon and has a very sweet, inviting way about her.  She is not traditional leading actress material, thank God, and I credit the producers for hiring her.  Even more so when you realize that Julia Stiles has a small part in this movie.  I am sure someone wanted a bigger 'name' to be Matt's female lead and it might have occured to more than one exec to switch Franka and Julia, but obviously I am glad that did not happen.
Clive Owen adds another strong performance to his resume.  He has only one big scene, really, but makes the most of it.  Chris Cooper and Brian Cox are known for their sturdy work and they also deliver here.
Excellent, summertime entertainment.  8/10.

I was pleasantly surprised with the Bourne Identity.Very rarely do I get to watch a movie that surpasses my expectations.First of all can I say that there are so many films out there that have the same regurgitated ideas and plot lines.Not many of which have any originality.This however is one of the exceptions thankfully and pleasantly.Centred around a man who gets washed ashore and with no memory.( OK so this has been done before !!) but this movie was original.A selection box of mystery, action and great acting by all concerned.Haven't seen much of Mr Damion I have to admit but he was impressive.The photography ( can I use that term without sounding like a theatre studies student ?) was very good.In fact watching this movie was like watching one of those middle of the night foreign movies in a funny sort of way.However this was much more.In a word this film was ORIGINAL.Well directed and well acted. Good to see a film that doesn't have to rely on spectacular special effects and painted backdrops.This film worked because it worked without any of that.( Now I am waffling)

Next to Ronin, this is one of the best action / spy movies that I've ever seen. I heard a lot of good critics, but didn't know what to think about it. I only saw it 2 years after it first appeared and I'm a little disappointed that I didn't go watch it in the cinema.I'm not too keen on movies like James Bond and other stuff in this genre, but this one is a lot better. Normally you see the "super hero" using all kinds of weird gadgets, driving extremely fast sports cars and sleeping with ladies who look more like prostitutes than being normal women.Jason Bourne however doesn't have all this things, which makes this movie a lot more realistic. The fights are fast and very realistic but still entertaining. The action scenes are believable, no super-gadgets, no incredibly willing women sharing his bed... Our hero even shows definite signs of physical vulnerability despite a very high level of training and competence. In the meanwhile he has to deal with amnesia, while being hunted without knowing why. In the end this is still a man which you can identify yourself with.I would say: Go watch it when you are a fan of movies like Ronin, don't watch it if you think James Bond is a person who you can bump into on the streets when going out. Personally I would award this movie with an 8/10.

I can sympathize with reviewers who had read the book and were disappointed by this film and the liberties it apparently took with the story. I've had that happen with books I've enjoyed and it can spoil a film you might otherwise have liked. I never read the book, so I was able to appreciate this film on its own merits - slick, tough, fast-paced and refreshingly devoid of the kind of nonsense that has made the Bond films harder and harder to sit through. I'm especially impressed by the fights, which, as other reviewers have pointed out, are among the most believable martial-arts-based fight scenes ever seen. No big grand gestures or Olympian kicks - just fast, nasty moves designed to inflict maximum damage with minimum effort.The cast is uniformly good - even Damon, who is no fave of mine, comes across believably as a man who's trained to hold it all in, but isn't sure what it all is that he's holding in. Cooper, Cox and Owen shine in their all-too-brief screen time. Potente is attractive in a real person sort of way (sigh of relief for this genre) and possesses an inner strength that makes her character's actions and reactions ring truer than what we'd get from the traditional Hollywood eye-candy girlfriend these films normally feature.From the gritty bowels of the trawler, where Damon awakens to his situation, to the field where he confronts his most deadly assailant, the locations are the antithesis of the travel poster hotspots that Bond so frequently visits. Despite its breakneck pace (handled so well by Liman and so poorly in the sequel by his protégé), the film manages to convey a sense of melancholy that lifts it a bit above the average action thriller. Sorry book fans - it may not be your cup of Ludlum, but it's still a damn fine little action flick.

Jason Bourne (Matt Damon) is a highly trained assassin, found left for dead at sea. He wakes to find he has no memory of who he is and he needs answers fast if he is to survive the attempts to erase his existence.The Bourne Identity is excellently paced and brings a great deal of realism to the spy genre. The fight sequences are fast and believable, the car chases are accurately choreographed and the character of Jason Bourne is vulnerable and easy to identify with.Matt Damon plays the role with apparent ease, he simply slips into the character and brings him to life. As spy thrillers go The Bourne identity one of the best around.8/10

I saw the Bourne Identity last night (6/4/02) at a special advanced screening in San Francisco.  Matt Damon was introduced at the end of the film and took questions from the audience for about a half hour.I've read Ludlum's book and the movie is very loosely based on it. Essentially this is about a man found floating in the sea, near death from gunshot wounds.  As the man wakes, he has no memory and eventually he finds himself on the run with the aid of a woman he barely knows.  Unlike the book, there is no Carlos, Marie is a gypsy not a banker, and the movie is set almost entirely in ParisI thought the movies was less of a spy thriller than a movie about two people on the run.  There were several lighter moments in the film with Damon and Franka Potente on the run.  Potente is really good and very funny. Chris Cooper (a great character actor) doesn't have the greatest lines, but delivers them quite well.  Julia Stiles is also in this movie, but her role is rather small.  Clive Owen is in the movie as well (not driving a BMW though) and while his role is small, he performs well especially as he talks about his life and sacrifices.I thought this film was good entertainment, but not great.Matt Damon said that he studied martial arts and had weapons training for five months.  He did do most of his own stunts.  Some of the fights scenes were great with an almost Matrix-like super-soldier type attitude.  There is a great stunt near the end of the movie as Bourne makes a move to get down the staircase.The film was shot in Paris and the Czech Republic.

Matt Damon had a huge splash on the Hollywood scene in 1997 with Good Will Hunting. But his followup movies like The Talented Mr. Ripley, All the Pretty Horses and The Legend of Bagger Vance failed to captivate both audiences and critics alike. It was this movie that not only made Damon an action movie start but a bankable star in general who started to get offered much better projects afterwards.The story is about a highly trained CIA assassin who while on a mission gets amnesia and then subsequently betrayed by his handlers.After Damon the stunts and the action scenes are the reasons this movie worked so well, along with a great supporting cast with Chris Cooper, Julia Stiles, Franka Potente and Brian Cox.