Just got back from seeing THE ROAD.I had been very impressed by the novel and was concerned about how it would be adapted. The tone of the novel is almost unremittingly bleak and a 100% faithful adaptation would be very difficult to watch.I'm happy to report that the film is very good indeed. It solves the problem of being unendurably depressing by concentrating on the emotional impact of the unspecified Armageddon, rather than the day to day fight for food, shelter and so on. So while at times it remains very upsetting it is shot through with hope rather than despair. I always felt the end of the novel was somewhat out of kilter with the rest of it but in the film it seems quite appropriate.I think the film is more about the collapse of civility rather than civilization: for a film that shows the last remnants of mankind struggling to eke out an existence it is remarkably concerned with relationships. That's probably why the exact cause of the catastrophe is left blank: the film isn't really about the end of the world so much as the end of society. It's an interesting companion piece to NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN in which an ageing man sees nothing but horror in the modern world. In THE ROAD a man convinces himself, for the sake of his son, that humanity will abide even in the face of appalling conditions.

While watching this movie I thought to myself that it was good I had already read the book. This was because the movie is agonizingly desperate and sad--often times it was just too much to absorb or handle in such a large dose. You can't put this movie down like you can with the book. Unlike the book being beautifully written, in an almost poetic prose, which distracted the reader from the subject, the movie is not beautifully shot. In your face is desperation, agony, and death.I can understand why this movie was shelved for a year. Do not go into it looking to be entertained, at best look to be intellectually stimulated. This is no popcorn movie.

This was a very dark, gloomy and depressing film in which you wished in just one scene that the darn sun would shine. I spent a lot of my time squinting at the screen trying to make sense of what was going on. The story centers around two characters. Viggo Mortenson as the Father and Kodi Smit-McPhee as the Son who are forced into survival in a Earth now destroyed by man's greed and global warming has killed most life except for as it is explained in the film two different types of peoples....The good people and the bad ones which do nothing but resort to cannibalism. After we see flash backs of the Mother telling the father that he needs to see to it that he gets their son to the sea in the South because she has no more of a desire to go on living, and in a very moving scene we see The Father pleading with her to just spend one more night with him before she walks off and dies. She does not and walks off into the darkness. The rest of the film has the Father and Son fighting their way through burned out cities and across a barren landscape in which it rains almost every day. They fight for survival from what appears to be red-necks who eat human flesh and keep warm humans locked up in basements to be eaten later. The Father Manages to escape death several times and save his son with nothing more than his wits and a pistol with only 2 rounds in which only 1 is ever used.They finally do reach the sea, which was the point that was pressed throughout the film but nothing happens once they are there. The last 20 minutes The Son spends on the beach watching The Father die. Before his death he tells The Son to keep going south. After The Fathers death The Son finds a good family while on the beach, which included a man, woman, little boy, girl and a dog. So was this the meaning for The Father to get his little boy to the ocean? To find a nice family living on the beach? This all seemed too simple an ending for a story that was pretty complex about survival in a world in which survival was everything. But as with all Hollywood films the ending had to be happy seeing how gloomy it was up to that point. It just seemed too good an ending....

I had high hopes at the beginning of "The Road." I was less than thrilled by the end. This post- apocalyptic journey of a man and his young son is rife with non-sensical decisions and stereotyped insertions, it ruins what could have been a dreary but thought provoking masterpiece. Viggo Mortensen is an amazing actor and he shines, Charlize Theron is wasted as a self centered bitch. The cameo by Robert Duval is really interesting and cool. I wish there was at least 5 minutes of back story as to how the Earth was turned into a gray wasteland - this was my early indicator of dissatisfaction to come. Wow, was I right. Where are the "meaning of life" conversations between father and son? Who is their right mind leaves a bomb/Tornado shelter stocked with non-perishable food just because someone or something walks around it? That is the most ridiculous scene in the movie - absolutely ridiculous. The stereotypes include the "trucker" gang that is obviously a slant on southerners, and why, oh why is the "thief" a black man? Are are kidding? I think I would have eaten the kid - for his whining. He was way to healthy looking to pass a sick malnourished little kid. the road to boredom.

I really have got to get used to reviewing adaptations of books, because they come out all the time. But reviewing them is so much different it almost doesn't seem fair. A movie like Watchmen would have seemed completely different had I not read the book. It just changes the playing field completely and usually not in a good way. However, it's not going away anytime soon.Let me start by saying how I came across the book "The Road", by Cormac McCarthy. It was about two years ago this time, and I was talking to my dorm parent about Children of Men, a movie that was so clearly well made and excellent, but I was left frustrated with it. Without giving too much away, Children of Men left me with no closure because the entire purpose of the movie seemed to be finding the cure, and the movie ends before they find it. In other words, it left too much unsaid, and for that, storyline alone, I gave it a 4/10. My dorm parent mentioned that if I didn't like Children of Men I probably wouldn't like The Road, because it gives you absolutely no information about what happened, it just tells you a story of a father and a son traveling in a post-apocalyptic world. Intrigued, and being a fan of Cormac McCarthy, I bought the book at the airport and on my way home for Thanksgiving, read the entire book. I really couldn't have imagined reading it any other way. Because the book has no chapters, and because it is so engaging, you have to read it in one sitting.A movie was inevitable from such a great story, especially hot off of No Country For Old Men's success. And the road (haha) to this movie's release has been long and slow. It got delayed a whole year, which made me apprehensive as to how good a film it was. So as I entered the movie theater last night, almost two years to the date since I read the book, I was nervous. Would this be another I Am Legend? Or would this capture the greatness of the book?The plot of the film and the movie are the same: a father and a son are some of the last remaining people on earth after an unexplained tragedy has happened. The two are just trying to survive, by heading south. Along the way they encounter many problems, but the heart of the story is in the relationship between the two characters, and the plot is minimal.Director John Hillcoat's last film, The Proposition, was an attempt to revive the dead genre of the Western. And it was brilliant in so many ways, but I especially liked how the setting was displayed in the film. You can taste the nasty feeling of 1850 Australia in The Proposition. And that's why he's a great fit for The Road, because he brings us into a setting very well. And in The Road he does this again, maybe not as well, but considering he has no source material other than the novel, he does a very good job at conveying this dead world. I enjoyed seeing all of the eclectic images of destruction he brought to this film. Images from the Yellowstone fire, Mount Saint Helens, and Hurricane Katrina were compiled together to create this world, as well as some decent special effects. My favorite image from the film is when the go on an overpass. The overpass stuck with me.The acting of the two leads is superb. Viggo Mortensen continues to impress me as a fantastic actor. When I was reading the book I imagined him as Djimon Hounsou, but Mortensen encompasses the character extremely well. Newcomer Kodi Smit-McPhee is just as good, and together they carry the entire film on their shoulders, and they do it effortlessly. My only complaint with the film is that because there is no driving plot, my guess is it could become tedious and hard to follow if you didn't read the book. Overall the fear and the relationship moved the story enough to keep me interested, but I can see how a lack of structure could be tedious to some. The tone and art direction are spot on, the acting is excellent, the story is a perfect adaptation of the book, but it isn't a groundbreaking film. The Road is as good as adaptations get, one of the best I have ever seen. It wasn't a white-knuckle film the way No Country was, nor was it nearly as well directed. But, it's a riveting and engaging film, and it's a fantastic story of two characters. In the end, that's enough of a reason for it to be a great movie. As for my expectations: it blew me away. Despite a delay and a bad trailer, The Road is an impressive film. My Rating: 9/10

I read Cormac McCarthy's novel a few years ago & figured it would be made into a movie (this was when "No Country for Old Men" was playing) but I wondered how they could make this extremely grim tale into something that people would want to see.This film was every bit as grim as the novel and it seemed to be a faithful adaptation of it. The characters seemed more believable in the film than in the novel. This is probably due to the medium but Viggio Mortenson did a fabulous job as the Protagonist (the unnamed father) and his son was also great. They both were tremendous and brought a lot of character development and engagement to an otherwise totally bleak story.I loved Robert Duvall's turn as the grizzled survivor. It was a supporting role sure to win an Oscar nomination. I think this will win more than its share of Oscar nominations, for Viggio at the very least.Great film, go check it out.

After reading about 150 of the 360 reviews to date, and having just watched the film on Netflix, I wish to put some perspective on this apocalyptic film version of Cormac McCarthy's book. First, I find that critics and readers have decided McCarthy is almost a God today. I unfortunately do not share this view, at least based on the films I have seen. "No Country For Old Men" was OK, but it apparently was about a different idea than what was involving me as a viewer, and it felt like the last chapter was missing. "The Road" was bleak and depressing for the most part, which I guess is to be expected in this genre without looking silly.The commendable aspects include the cast and the bleak cinematography. Many have commented on Kody Smit McPhee's whining and crying as annoying, because after so many years he should have been toughened up. But this was the only tender human emotion in the film, and it was, I believe, intended to show that he had not lost his humanity. The ending, which, like "No Country", came abruptly, though none too soon, gave a slight feeling of hope, though almost no closure. This too is criticized by many as Hollywoodish, but do you absolute realists want a bleak film to be unrelenting from start to finish? Even funerals try to add some joy.The down sides of this film are its length, too long, with very little happening or changing, and the flaw that has them leave the fallout shelter on the flimsiest of reasons when they had enough food and supplies to last a very long time there. Some people watch movies for flaws, and if you are one of those, then I suppose there were plenty, but I try to accept the film as it is, and see to what extent it involves me emotionally and with full attention. This film was so-so at best. I concur with reviewers who liked "The Road Warrior" better, for it was very entertaining, but not very realistic. It was like a WWE show in an apocalyptic setting.I didn't bother to review the overall plot here, as with over 350 reviews, it has been covered thoroughly. My point was to negate the hyperbole that so many reviewers reported. The film was mostly well done, but not very entertaining, and as such did not do very well at the box office, despite glowing reviews by critics and a widespread release. I gave it a 6, because it wasn't awful, and it wasn't great. I'm glad I rented it, rather than paid to see it in a theater, and I won't watch it again, for at my age (70) I don't want to invest 2 hours repeatedly on a movie that has so little joy, hope, or anything clever or funny, no matter how well done it may be.

I have been a huge fan of Cormac McCarthy ever since the movie No County for Old Men was released. I loved that movie so much I ran out to buy the book. After reading it, I was amazed at how faithful the movie was to the book. McCarthy has an unusual writing style, notorious for omitting punctuation, but his stories are always compelling and thought-provoking. I have read several of his books since, and The Road was by far my favorite. I read the entire book in two days, THAT'S how drawn in I was to the story. There's a reason it was a Pulitzer Prize winner, and it's one of my most favorite books of all time.I was both excited and concerned when I heard that there was a film adaptation of the book. I hadn't learned about this film until years after its release. Of course, I had to watch it, but I did do with a high degree of skepticism and was prepared for utter disappointment. But to my surprise, I absolutely LOVED it. It literally felt like I was watching the book. Seriously, this movie was nearly identical to how I visualized the story in my head. It's not uncommon for book fans to be highly critical of movie adaptations and the artistic liberties filmmakers sometimes make. But I am confident that those who have read (and loved) The Road will not be disappointed with this film. It is, without a doubt, one of the BEST book-to-film adaptations I've ever seen.I can only surmise that the majority of negative reviews about this film come from people who have never read the book. I'm not sure how many people who read the book and hated it would go on to watch the movie, but maybe there are a few who would. It's understandable why some people have a hard time with this movie, and the story in general. It's dark. It's depressing. The future is bleak. A lot of the scenes are hard to watch and it can be emotionally draining. But it's also one of the more realistic depictions of what life might look like in the aftermath of a catastrophic apocalypse. And for once, zombies are not responsible for it.The book, nor the movie, explains the event which caused the apocalypse. I think that's because it is irrelevant to the story McCarthy is trying to tell. The focus is not on the event itself, but on survival and how we, as human beings, endure when the future seems utterly hopeless. Having said that, my personal belief is that the "event" was caused by a massive asteroid. A global nuclear or volcanic disaster would create too much radiation or atmospheric carbon monoxide for people to be walking around outside instead of hiding underground. Instead, what we see here is eerily similar to what we might have seen when dinosaurs were wiped off the Earth.A large-scale asteroid impact would cause a mass-extinction event killing virtually all animal and plant life. Dust and debris would fill the skies for several years and block light from the sun. Since plants require sunlight for photosynthesis, they would be the first to die followed by the animals who eat them. Temperatures would drop. The particulates in the air that we would be constantly exposed to and breathe in would make us sick over time and cause respiratory issues. So, surviving such an event would be both a blessing and a curse. Because yes, you'd still have your life, but every day would be a battle and a struggle to keep it. Life would very much look like it does in The Road. It's not pleasant, but it seems fairly accurate.So the book, nor the movie, is sugar-coating what could someday (and without warning) be a plausible reality. It's HARD to have hope when literally everything and everyone around you is either dead or dying. Some may view McCarthy's story as bleak and hopeless, but I think they're missing the point. Human beings have a STRONG survival instinct. We are so afraid of death, in fact, that most cultures have adapted a belief in life after death to cope with the inevitable, yet uncomfortable concept of mortality. Even with such devout beliefs, no one seems to be in a hurry to give up their mortal life. We WANT to survive, and you can never really know the lengths you're willing to go unless you find yourself in a true survival situation. Especially to protect your family.What the story gives us is the horror of what humans would do to survive, but also how we are capable of retaining our humanity. How kindness, compassion, and empathy is possible even in the face of certain death. The Boy, who has only ever known life in a post-apocalyptic world, deeply cares for others despite his father's attempts to harden his heart. The Boy is innately kind and generous in a world that likely won't reward him for it. Altruism is the antithesis to self-preservation. But he gives the world hope. And there are many other "blink and you'll miss it" glimmers of hope laced throughout the movie that, while perhaps not in the near future, demonstrates how resilient living things are even when some circumstances are completely out of our control.Our planet has already endured at least five mass extinction events that we know of. But the Earth is also resilient, capable of recovery and thus it continues to sustain life in one form or another. We would not exist had the dinosaurs survived; their death gave rise to the mammals that were their prey. With the predators gone, they were able to proliferate and evolve over the last 100+ million years. For perspective, modern humans have only been around for the last 20,000 years. If the Earth came into existence 24 hours ago, humans would be less than a second old.Our consciousness and intelligence have allowed us to survive, but it has also turned our species against one another with a long history of war and ambitions of power. This leads us to the ultimate question of what The Road is really about. Is it about surviving a desolate and inhospitable environment? Or is it about surviving ourselves? If we're not working together, we're working against each other, and The Road tells a story of how we always have that choice. We could fight, kill, and steal from one another, or we could love, show compassion, and share with others. Because at the end of the day, the Earth will move on with or without us on it. Just like it moved on long after the dinosaurs.