Went into this expecting a bunch of gore, but instead go an interesting story and premise. The idea is a merging of quite a few ideas you may recognize, but was done very well. Up until a certain point.The last 25 minutes or so seemed that they ran out of ideas on how to tie up a thought out start with a decent ending, so they just went for a typical and somewhat predictable end.By no means is it a horrible movie, and there are some good performances in it. Just don't expect to walk away stunned at the end.Oh...while not overloaded with CGI - what they do use is amazing looking.

Like Lost, and Stephen King's The Dark Tower, the Deaths of Ian Stone does a great job of building up a mysterious story and loads of questions, but sadly doesn't really follow through at the end. Ian Stone is a ice hockey player that gets hunted down and killed by a strange monster. The next day, he's an office worker who's girlfriend turns into a monster and kills him. The day after that, he's a taxi driver who gets stalked by monsters. The only constant is a blonde girl who turns up in every incarnation. Who is killing him every day and why? And who is the blonde girl?This was all good stuff up to a point, but when things start being explained, it all becomes a bit ho-hum. Not a bad film, mind, the creatures are pretty good creations, and there's plenty of tension, but I think the film makers were looking towards creating a Clive Barker-like worlds-within-worlds mythology. It didn't quite work. For some reason the baddies all dress like Matrix people. Didn't quite get that bit either.It's okay, just don't get yourself too excited when watching the first half.

Hey wait a minute a low budget horror film thats actually pretty good. Despite bumpy start this is a good film about a guy who is being killed again and again, each time jumping into a new life. I don't want to say more since the film is solving the puzzle as to what's going on. This is a good story that seems like an extended episode of one of the better horror anthology series, while it probably could be trimmed down a bit, the film is mostly a solid little thriller that puts the story and characters first instead of the effects. Yes there are effects, but they aren't over used nor are they over done. if you like good, pulpy horror stories give this a try.

Ian Stone (Mike Vogel) keeps dying. Stalked by Stan Winston demon-thingy creations, he is killed at the same time every day, and then keeps waking in different lives with different professions.THE DEATHS OF IAN STONE is an original premise, the first act, dynamite, as Vogel gets his Ewan McGregor on and tries to keep from being killed in creative ways. Because we cannot clearly see his demons, we presume there may be more than meets the metaphysical eye here and we are the heart in Ian Stone's throat as he is pursued relentlessly.No matter every new life of his, Jenny (Christina Cole) is always around, as Ian's co-worker or girlfriend or neighbor, unaware she is living through multiple lives with him.Unfortunately, the breakneck pace of this horror thriller cannot be sustained without some plodding exposition. Some old guy gives Ian the lowdown: the demons are Harvesters and they feed off people's fear. They keep killing him because... well, this is where the illogic starts bleeding through the fabric of the writer's nice blood-red cardigan.At first, we hope there is redemption in the mythical allusions - a dominatrix-demon named Medea (Jaime Murray) - before we realize writer Brendan Hood probably just named the villainess after his cat. Then DEATHS OF IAN STONE quickly degenerates into standard "monster" fare with latex facemasks, grumbling gore and supernatural "rules" spewed at us at lightning speed to reconcile all the physics laws being broken to serve the asinine plot.Inexperienced director Dario Piana held a smacking hot property, but failed to follow through. Whereas the first act sang like a slayer's scream, the third act quickly starts looking and feeling like a TV movie starring Eric Roberts. For example, the Harvesters in the first act were chilling; by the time Ian Stone turns into a Harvester himself, he looks like Eric Stoltz in MASK. Ironically, Ian Stone looks like the one with the mask on.Even with all these rules shoved into our skulls at the last minute, no one explains why all the other Harvesters, when they change from people to monsters, lose their clothes, yet Ian Stone retains his edgy Runway Model shirt. (Well, so we can identify him from the others, of course - the edgy modelwear for the ladies who like bad boys.) Turns out the Harvesters are after Ian's girl! For reasons as equally inane and illogical as his being a Harvester. And after all the stalking and attempts on her life, when the Harvesters eventually acquire her, they don't kill her immediately; they wait for Ian Stone aka Eric Stoltz to arrive and beat the special effects out of them.After all, dying is easy. Comedy is hard.

This film interested me as it was a new concept, a man dying and keep coming back each day in a new life. I cant be bothered to write the ins and outs of the film but overall it was an interesting but non scary story. It was well shot and overall well done.Bad points - the brown haired lady started off well along with the first 40 minutes of the film, but towards the end i think the strength of the film was lost through some of the acting, and costume designs an almost matrix wanna-be with that one, you'll see what i mean if you watch it. So you really have to take with a pinch of salt and go with the flow of it.Overall it is a good film, at times can be a bit corny but for a fairly unknown film in the UK even though it was made here, was a gripping and engaging film however not consistent throughout sadly.Never the less if you come across it watch its entertaining and different 7/10

Ian Stone (Mike Vogal) seems to by dieing horrific deaths only to inexplicably be alive again, albeit in different versions of his life. The only constant person is him, of course, his love interest, Jenny (Christina Cola) & mysterious Medea (Jaime Murray from "Dexter"). Interesting premise for a film I thought, but the film ultimately fails by tipping it's hat way too early erasing the mysterious element to the movie and replacing it with a generic creature horror flick. Which I'd be fine with. But the film just gets so silly and matrix-lite that I had no recourse, save to merely roll my eyes and imagine a better film that could've been.My Grade: D+ DVD Extras: 6 censored Miss Horrorfest 2007 contest Webisodes (totaling 19 and a half minutes of total uselessness); Trailers for "The Eye" remake, "Wristcutters: a love story"; and Promos for Fear.net, Horrorfest 2008, & After Dark: 8 Films to Die for

In England, Ian Stone (Mike Vogel) finds himself trapped in a weird situation: everyday, he meets the same persons in the most different situation, including Medea (Jaimie Murray) and Jenny (Christina Cole); around 5 PM, the watches stop and Ian is haunted by creepy beings with claws and has a painful death, waking again in another life. When an old man meets him and tells that he must protect Jenny to resurrect again, Ian begins to unravel a great mystery."The Deaths of Ian Stone" has a promising and intriguing beginning that recalls "Groundhog Day", "12:01" and "The Matrix", with the lead character awaking every day in a different reality after dying. Unfortunately the explanation of the Harvesters is weak and very disappointing. There are many points that deserve better clarification, like why the existence of parallel lives? Or how can the realities change and how could Ian return to the initial life if he died? With a better development of the story, resolving the flaws in the screenplay, this movie could be excellent. But it entertains and is original and my vote is six.Title (Brazil): "Prisioneiro da Morte" ("Prisoner of the Death")

this was a promising idea but ended up having no decent basis to back it up. half baked, half full, half cooked, it was actually less than half a movie and I wish I'd skipped through it cos there were long bits that contributed nothing to the story and just slowed the whole thing down.The screen looked good, obviously a reasonable budget and they must have had some $$$ for those liverpool street locations but why waste all that if you haven't got your story together, if you've got major plot holes and a yarn that the actors can't deliver convincingly (I'm avoiding saying the actors were bad, but they were)Anyway I wish I hadn't wasted my time watching this, and my advice to you is don't do likewise. Ultimately not worth it.

I saw this movie by accident. It is not a movie I would have elected to see had I known more about it, despite being largely a horror fan.I was surprised. It's dark and fantastic, and (at least initially) reminded me of Dark City. It begins very well, with huge potential.For the first half I was genuinely excited, on the edge of my seat, thinking, "This movie rocks!" And it did. It rocked hard. For the first half.And then it nosedived into a congealed vat of epic suck. Why? Because despite well-written, believable dialogue and flashy, convincing special effects ... it falls back on tired clichés.They set up this epic paradigm, this terrifying situation, and then ... well ... Love saves the day. No really, it does. I could feel the sickly sweet tendrils of this puerile Hallmark conclusion reaching out from wayyyy before they started dropping brick-heavy hints that it was coming.I resent the writer for drawing me into the dark seedy whisky bar of this masterfully constructed paradigm, only to hand me a diet cola. Bait and switch! Not even the fact that Love allows our hero to defeat evil by disembowelling it managed to cheer me up.I'm still rating this a 7 because of how well it's written and how good it looks, but I'm annoyed, and I feel strangely betrayed. For **** sake, you can't show us that much gore and then tell us Love Triumphs Over All.I think I'm mostly peeved because this had the potential to be a cult movie; the sort that gets shown at festivals year after year. Great idea wrecked by crap Hollywood mentality.

In the beginning I really thought the idea behind the film was a really something different in its whole plot..,. Unfortunately, that and some of the special effects where the only good things about it. Lets put it like this: the matrix meets the predator meets Alien meets T-1000 meets your average everyday love movie meets hostel meets the saw meets lots of crap.. i don't know why I watched the whole movie, it started off quite interesting but turned pretty boring after about ten minutes which didn't change anymore throughout the movie. I like horror movies, I also like the senseless ones and the gory ones but this one just tries way to hard to be serious or special that it becomes wack... don't waste your time on this, its really not worth it at all.. Gave it 3 stars for the rather "uncommon" idea and some of the effects, as I wrote before...

I heard, before I saw this movie, that it was supposedly very much like Dark City. This alone made me actually see it, as Dark City is one of my favourite movies and, in my opinion, not known enough considering how many have borrowed from it aftwerwards.The idea seemed interesting - One man dies over and over again, only to wake up in a new life. Screams DarkCity right there, but I will have to say that I don't think that's a bad thing.The first 15 minutes, or so, had me at the edge of my seat, and yes, the first half of the movie is quite brilliant. But when our hero started to figure things out (with a little help from Michael Feast, who always is a joy to watch) the plot started to blur and I found myself playing "spot the movie" instead of paying too much attention to whether poor Ian would make it or not. Because Dario Piana has borrowed a lot. Not that I'm actually bothered by it. In fact, if he had managed to tie it all together in the end, it would have been a beautiful lovechild of Dark City and Jacob's Ladder (and other movies). But sadly, in the end, the swan became a duckling again, ad it's a shame as this movie had so much potential to be something that I personally would have really enjoyed.Don't get me wrong, this is not a bad movie, and there are some quite disturbing scenes. It simply feels like they had a lot of grand ideas that they, had no idea what to do with when the clock started to count down towards the end credits. Even so, The Deaths of Ian Stone is a good second movie from Piara and I'm excited to see what he'll come up with in the future.

I usually don't write user comments on IMDb, but this is one movie that I just had to steer people away from. It's dreadfully boring, unimaginative, absolutely one-dimensional and utterly devastating to your movie morning/afternoon/night/dawn (pick your choice). I kept on praying that the film roll get cut off or something so that I could demand my money back and get out of the theater.I won't make any spoilers, since there may well be those of you who wish to see before making judgements (although I don't recommend it). To make a comparison, to me it felt like a sordid mixture of Buffy inside Dark City kicking it out with Matrix wannabes. (No offence intended to either Dark City or Matrix, the former of which I consider a cult classic in its own right and the latter which I hold as entertainable.) The central characters are hardly given any development, cliché themes pop out of nowhere, and the villains wearing shiny shiny plastic clothes and makeup that gives them the "spacemen" suit image and "I'm a scrunched-up scary monster"...there are B-movies that are fun to enjoy, and there are B-movies that simply seem dying to brand themselves with the "F" grade. Needless to say, this one belongs to the latter.Don't watch this movie unless you're drunk alone at home and bored to death....I want my money back.

I just saw three of the eight Horrorfest films - three more on Saturday and one on Sunday - and "The Deaths of Ian Stone" was my most anticipated one of the lot. I had to pay full price for this one, and I'm glad to say it was worth it. If you've seen "Dark City" it has that kind of vibe to it. It also reminded a bit of "Torchwood." Rather than being one of myriad of slasher-serial killer films, this one is more sci-fi with an almost "Twilight Zone" quality to it. Original script and, even with an American lead, it was well acted. Scary, not too gory ... nice work! I'm looking forward to buying it when it comes out on DVD.

The problem with reviewing a film that is meant to be mysterious from the outset is exactly that. However I've seen enough films that concentrate so much on the mysterious that they are never explained and the advantage of "Deaths" is that once it has spent 45 minutes playing with your mind it sets about explaining itself quite clearly and concisely allowing the direction of the film to change.In fact just before the "reveal" I had started to guess towards the outcome and felt some satisfaction that I was right.I didn't find the reveal disappointing either. Nice and simple keeping the plot consistent and allowing the film to ensure it does not outstay its welcome.The leads all seem to be having fun as well which allows for relationships to have some form of meaning.Budget is used well and locations, although nothing new, are used to great effect. Camera angles and music are standard horror fare but there's no complaints there (lets face it it is a horror film).Possibly the let down is that these scenes have been done in previous horror movies. We have the Underground, Hospital, Dank Alleyways and Creeped out at home and whilst they do nothing wrong the viewer may have the feeling that he has seen this before.Still this is mild criticism of a film that "keeps on ticking" and didn't cause me to check my watch (even to see if it had stopped!)

I'm a long-term user of IMDb but have never felt moved to post a review...until, that is, "The Deaths of Ian Stone". I (like many, judging from a trawl of the reviews on here), had some high hopes for this film on the back of a rather intriguing blurb and a personal soft spot for (even mediocre) psychological thrillers.After 10 minutes or so I thought the film still had potential. Maybe it would lift and a compelling tale would unravel. At the 20 minute mark I thought an extra glass of Shiraz might boost things - loosen my over-critical eye and help me acclimatise to an increasingly faltering plot and embarrassingly overwrought acting. Maybe...um....HEY, MAYBE there'd be a TWIST! YES, a quality twist is all it needs! At about the hour mark I expressed this hope fervently to my fellow movie watcher, who sullenly informed me that the revelation that Ian Stone was actually once one of the 'Dr. Who-esquire' creatures probably constituted the 'twist'. The final half-hour I spent contemplating how B-grade production values had improved slightly in the last couple of decades (while their acting had not, thereby wresting them of all endearment) and polishing off the Shiraz in the hope that, like Ian, my memory would be erased, at least temporarily.Personally I think 'The Matrix' (whose prototype wardrobe was quite obviously commandeered by the 'Stone' team) was a film that started brilliantly and ended up in near trainwreck territory (although trainwrecks are rarely so banal). Unfortunately 'Stone' takes the same trajectory, but starts at the station that Matrix hopped off. On the plus side, the movie is so bad it's bound to be talked about around the office water cooler.

In professional wrestling matches, at least in the good old days, there would come a moment when the "good" wrestler, the "clean" guy who would never engage in "illegal" moves, after having been put through 10 minutes of excruciating pain by his "bad" wrestler opponent who has no such scruples, far from being permanently disabled as you would expect, finally gets fed up and decides not to take it anymore. With one swift but satisfying drop-kick, he turns the tables and proceeds to deliver a humiliating trouncing to the bad guy as the fans scream approval.That, in a nutshell is the plot of this movie. Only instead of 10 minutes it lasts for -- I don't know, it felt like 3 or 4 hours but I guess it was only about 90 minutes. The acting is nonexistent, the plot is stupid, the special effects are laughable, and the whole thing is so badly lit you get a headache squinting at it. The only use I can think of for this movie is as a safe and effective alternative to sleeping pills. Some of the talkier sections are that boring.