Not a box office success; no-one really knows why.  It may have failed simply because of its title.  It looks as though you need a two-word tough-guy title to attract a sufficient proportion of the idiot crowd - "Die Hard", "Lethal Weapon", "Hard Weapon", "Die Lethal", etc. - talking about "the long kiss goodnight" will get you nowhere.  But for once Renny Harlin has made a GOOD action movie.  A large part of the reason for this lies in the fact that the central character, Samantha, earns our affection and interest early on.  As she becomes Charly again, we're torn: we certainly want Charly to thwart the bad guys, and all that; but we don't want her to lose touch with Samantha in order to do so - even though we like Charly, too.  Geena Davis bestows all of her considerable charm on both halves of the central character.  Samuel L. Jackson plays second fiddle for a change. It turns out he's good at it.  That was a compliment.Intelligent, far superior to anything in the "Die Hard" series - if I were more cynical I'd add, "it's not surprising that it didn't do well", but I don't really feel that way; it IS surprising that it didn't do well.

A lot of 'The Long Kiss Goodnight (1996)' is decidedly silly, especially when it comes to its over-the-top, tonally jarring and generally just outright ridiculous action sequences. The heroes are essentially indestructible, despite the heavy beating they both endure by the film's end, to the point that it becomes quite ludicrous they'd survive the events they do (indeed, the original script was much darker and even included a major death, which was shot but recut because of audience testing). However, there's generally a knowing vibe the the flick, one that's marked by Shane Black's signature witty banter and some almost ostentatious performances, and this allows the picture to remain fun regardless of its occasional tonal issues, its cartoonish action scenes and all its unkept mayhem (seriously, the flick has quite the body-count). It has an almost satirical feel that's compounded by the several scenery-chewing monologues, tried-and-tested genre cues and people who refer to themselves as spies with a straight face. 6/10

This is by far my favorite action movie. But what makes it work is not the elaborate Renny Harlin explosions and shoot-em-ups. It's the Shane Black script and its deft delivery by Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson.The chemistry between the two principals merited a sequel. Thank God it was never made. Too much danger of marring the original.'The Long Kiss' checkerboards from quotable scene to action scene to quotable scene and back again. Never a dull moment. This has to be Jackson's funniest role ever, and the amazing thing is that he is playing one of the most normal characters of his career. No quirky Tarantino hit-man, super-cool Shaft, or borderline psycho soldier. In TLKG, Jackson is the everyman we identify with. The poor schmuck gets dragged along on this crazy woman's odyssey to uncover the dangerous secret of her past.Though the story claims that Davis's character, Samantha Caine is suffering from amnesia, the writer and director treat her condition as if it were a multiple personality disorder.Samantha Caine is not just a new identity taken by the amnesiac Charly Baltimore -- she is a separate, fully-developed personality. The traumas suffered by Samantha in the first half-hour of the movie help the submerged dissociate personality of Charly to emerge again.The materials of her past life excavated by Jackson's detective Mitch Henessey facilitate Charly's resurfacing. Good timing, too, considering the target Samantha makes of herself.But Charly has to fight herself to remain the dominant personality. One gathers from bits of dialogue that the warrior personality (Charly) developed after her father died and she was recruited by the "Chapter".In the eight years Charly was buried in the psyche, though, her Samantha identity developed into the dominant personality. (She's even funnier that Charly.) This was probably due to becoming a mother, because it's the reunion with her daughter that breaks Charly's struggle to suppress Samantha, leading to their apparent integration by movie's end.It's impossible to choose a "best quote" from this film:"Now you're a sharpshooter?""I saved your ass. It was great!""Continue dying. Out.""I sock 'em in the jaw and yell 'Pop goes the weasel'".And a couple of dozen more, many too raunchy to quote here.Geena Davis looks great, and comes off as an action hero without glossing over the fact she's turning forty. (Listen to Charley's history, do the math).Fantastic soundtrack, too. Santana, Muddy Waters, Elvis, LaBelle, Marvin Gaye. I give 'The Long Kiss Goodnight' a 9, only because I don't believe in a perfect 10. Seen it a dozen times, and it still stays fresh. Nice twisted holiday flick to place on your shelf next to 'It's A Wonderful Life.'

Samantha Caine, schoolteacher, mother, suffering from amnesia, suddenly finds the impetus to track down her former life after an attempt is made on her life. It's going to be explosive......Absolute preposterous nonsense laced with explosions, cringe worthy dialogue and Geena Davis as an all killing assassin bitch. Is it any good? Oh yes indeed! Directed by Mr Unsubtle-Renny Harlin {Davis' then husband} and written by one Shane Black {Lethal Weapon, Last Boy Scout & Kiss Kiss Bang Bang}, is it any wonder that the Long Kiss Goodnight is ear splittingly loud and funny as hell?Davis plays Sammy "home-maker" Caine who teams up with a superbly seedy Samuel L. Jackson as ex-bent copper, ex-convict, Mitch Henessey. Their mission, which they choose to accept, involves rekindling Samantha's past life as an assassin called Charly Baltimore and unearthing shady government conspiracies. Shot against a bitter winter backdrop on the East Coast, with the Christmas setting oddly adding potency, our wonderful duo take us on one hell of a ride. Davis excels as a sexy action heroine while Jackson is content, and impactingly so, to let Davis basically kick buttocks as he plays perfect side-kick foil. Harlin, this after the critically savaged Cutthroat Island, knows how to construct action scenes, check out the train station scene and a tanker on the run heart pumper. But it's with Shane Black's screenplay that the film primarily entertains. Full of one line zingers and role reversal put downs, you should be laughing as your eyes and ears are assaulted in popcorn bonanza.Mindless all action fun. 7.5/10

Viewed this film during the Christmas season and enjoyed this film which starts out rather calm and some what boring and then you start putting the pieces together. Geena Davis,(Samantha Caine) has a memory loss and has some flash backs occasionally, like slicing carrots and tomatoes and being very handy with putting a gun together and some bad language. Samuel L. Jackson,(Mitch Henessey), plays a con man who has other interests in Samantha and finds himself getting deeply involved with her memory loss and about this time, the film becomes full of action and people who you think are going to die, come back to life. Entertaining film, but entirely too long and drawn out, however, Jackson and Davis did a great job of performing.

Several schoolboy errors e.g. failing to consult Film Editing for Dummies and assuming your audience to be the most gullible and naive idiots to have roamed the earth since the last ice age. Yes, you occasionally need a leap of faith or two to surmount the often bizarre nonsense of the genres voids but to spend the entire film in forgiveness is unforgivable. Kiss this one goodnight and bury it deep post haste.

Well, sitting down to watch the 1996 movie "The Long Kiss Goodnight" for the third or fourth time since it was originally released, I have to say that director Renny Harlin's movie is every bit as enjoyable and entertaining today as it was back in the day.The storyline written by Shane Black is very enjoyable, and it is one that immediately draws in the audience and takes the audience along on an action-packed ride throughout a very nicely constructed, written and told plot and storyline. And this makes "The Long Kiss Goodnight" a very watchable movie.And also the cast ensemble in "The Long Kiss Goodnight" makes the movie all the more enjoyable. I mean, you have Geena Davis and Samuel L. Jackson in the leading roles, and they carry this movie phenomenally together. And the movie also have the likes of Brian Cox, David Morse and Craig Bierko on the cast list as well.The pacing of the narrative throughout the movie is good and rather nicely paced, and the storyline has that quality to it which makes it a movie that you can watch multiple times, and the movie keeps being as enjoyable with each viewing. I will actually say that this is definitely one of the more memorable movies of the mid-1990s.If you haven't already seen "The Long Kiss Goodnight", then you most certainly should do so, should you find yourself with the opportunity to do so.My rating of "The Long Kiss Goodnight" lands on a seven out of ten stars.

I feel extremely sad for some of the people who have been reviewing this film.  It is apparent that their standards are so high that they will never be able to enjoy a film just for enjoyment sake.  Or, perhaps, their enjoyment is derived from the act of picking films apart;  looking for any reason at all to dislike them?The Long Kiss Goodnight is an action film, in every sense of the word. Sure, there are holes in the plot big enough to drive a semi through, but none of them are enough to stop the flow of the film itself.  I have never been a big Geena Davis fan, but I was impressed with how she was able to create two very different characters, Samantha Cain and Charlie Baltimore. In my opinion, it wasn't even necessary to have changed her physical appearance to differentiate between the two...her acting was more than enough to do the trick.More than anything else, though, this film was Craig Bierko's.  In another's hands, the character of Timothy could've been just another interchangeable villain.  His decision to play him with a more casual approach was just the right counterpoint to all of the action scenes.  It isn't often that you find an actor who can express himself so well with just his facial expressions...point in case: the scene in the freezer with Charlie and her daughter.  Where most films would've cluttered the moment of "revelation" with unnecessary dialogue, Bierko's eyes told the whole story.The basic plot?  Thin, to be truthful.  A seemingly average housewife who suffers from amnesia slowly discovers that she had been an assassin.  As her memory returns, so do the people who want the assassin dead.  Is she really Samantha, the cookie baking housewife, or Charlie, the cold blooded assassin?  Or maybe a little bit of both?  For me, The Long Kiss Goodnight was an enjoyable journey to find out.