I've said it before,Adam Sandler does not do great films.He merely wants to entertain us.Though there are times when he has failed miserably,this is not the case with The Wedding Singer.While it does showcase Sandler's usual juvenile humor,this is by far his most likable character,even to date,and the chemistry between him and Drew Barrymore is undeniable. Though this film is not flawless by any means,it is funny and charming just the same.

I'm usually pretty cynical about cheesy movies but this movie absolutely floored me.  Drew Barrymore was phenomenal playing role of Julia Sullivan. I've seen the movie at least 30 times by now and her expressions still make me cry, they're just so sincere. I don't know how else to put it.  As for Adam Sandler I think that this is his best role yet, he's a real person in this movie not just some overgrown immature goofball.  On top of everything it's a brilliant 80s satire, for me its right up there with American Psycho. I understand why someone would have reservations about watching this movie but my advice would be to put your cynicism aside for a couple of hours and just watch with an uncritical mind.  I think you'll be pleasantly surprised.

Adam Sandler plays Robbie Hart, a wedding singer with only enough money to get by. He was going to get married, but Linda, his fiancé', doesn't show up, and finally confronts him saying that she was having second thoughts. Drew Barrymore plays Julia Sullivan, a shy girl engaged to the wrong man. They meet when Julia is waitressing at the place Robbie works at. They are instantly friends and get along quite well.This simple plot is expanded by the great and memorable characters and the actors who portray the roles. It is funny and has plenty of memorable lines. And if this isn't enough for you to shout "WAHOO!" the chemistry between Julia and Robbie is right on and I'm surprised they aren't dating in real life. This is a great romantic comedy so just watch it without any questions! It has become one of my favorites.

There are only three Adam Sandler films that I have ever really liked - 'Grown Ups 1 and 2' and this one.I don't know if it's just because it's set in an era I enjoy so much or if it's because of all the references to the 80's that I love and are delivered quite hysterically.I still don't rate Adam particularly highly in this film, but I could at least get behind his character and route for him more than I could with other films.The story is sweet. I do love a romance and the supporting actors and their stories are all very enjoyable.There is something about Allan Covert in that red leather jacket, with the tache, that is quite fanciable too.The music is superb, even when it is being slaughtered by some of the singers, because they are just great songs and the backing songs they used are fantastic too. It would make a really good jukebox stage musical if it hasn't already.706.75/1000.

Adam Sandler had made two decent movies. Actually they were exceptional films. Punch Drunk love was one, with Emily Watson elevating him to a new and entirely fresh level. This is the other. Interestingly, just as Emily Watson made such an impact, so does Drew Barrymore in this film. She is nothing less than adorable and as an actress, raises Sandler up out of his usual routine. The opening sequence with the credits is absolutely one of the best starts of a comedy ever filmed. The guest cameos are stunningly hilarious, especially Steve Buscemi. The movie does drag a bit in the middle but overall it is a very good romantic comedy and for Adam Sandler, a true work of art.

Set in 1985 it's the story of a wedding singer (Adam Sandler), who is seeking the stability and security of marriage when he is stood up at the altar. On the other side waitress (Drew Barrymore) who is seeking the same and about to marry the wrong guy.Cute and relatively inoffensive with some nostalgic and very funny reflections on the music and 'culture' of the 1980's. When I first saw this movie upon it's release I went in virtually kicking and screaming after having the misfortune of catching the truly awful Billy Madison on television. But here Sandler is much more restrained than in some of his previous efforts.The two leads come across well enough but they are not really breaking any new ground here and the cameos are well used, in particular Steve Buscemi as a drunken best man. The films strength is largely ins 1980's satiric nods.

To repeat a theme, I'm not a big fan of Adam Sandler, but I love this movie.Robbie Hart is a genuinely likable character; he's a person I would like to have as a friend, and he's a performer I would gladly hire to sing at my OWN wedding (Sandler also seems completely comfortable with his character, while even Drew Barrymore sometimes sounds like she's merely reciting written dialogue). Yes, he's a capital-R Romantic, but that seems like a strong qualification for someone who makes his living at other people's weddings. I like the whole idea of a romantic comedy being set behind the scenes of the whole wedding game, and some of the most telling scenes involve Robbie guiding Julia through the preparations with an insider's eye.Probably the funniest parts of the movie (to me) are those that play to Robbie's broken heart; it's probably the best depiction of the depression of the newly-dumped I've ever seen (in particular, I love the "Kill Me Please" song). Hey, I've been there.This all being said, however, I think the touch-all-the-landmarks-of-the-mid-'80s approach gets awfully heavy-handed at times. The musical choices, though, were excellent.

Not much to say about this one.  A few yucks, but I have to defer to Roger Ebert here:  the plot is as old as the hills, and they filmed a zillion of these silly stories in the 1930's onward, but back then they seemed to realize they WERE silly, and had fun with them.  Now they take it so seriously, which makes you groan "Oh come on".  Adam Sandler mumbles a lot, there are some very one-dimensional characterizations, some vaguely interesting characters whose roles go absolutely nowhere, and a plot that you can peg in the first 5-10 minutes of the film.  This would all be forgiveable if the thing were really funny, but there are only a couple of good laughs.  Drew Barrymore is an excellent actress, but her talents are wasted in this one. There are funnier films to rent, so keep looking.

This quirky film has everything- lots and lots of comedy, a nice touch of romance, some violence and a hint of sadness now and again. Oh and it also stars 2 of the most charming actors- Drew Barrymore, as Julia and Adam Sandler, as Robbie. Their on-screen chemistry is very remarkable to watch and their individual charm is most appealing. The movie is set in the 80's and is a great nostalgic piece for that time period- in all is cheesiness and glory! Sandler as the Wedding Singer will surprise you with his musical talents. And musicians who have run the gamut of various music-related jobs will have extra giggles. And of course Barrymore will dazzle you with her cuteness and poise. This movie will leave you in stitches! And a must see!!!