If you've seen the trailer for this movie, you're probably expecting fast paced adventure, non-stop action and a special effects extravaganza with just enough story to keep it all interesting.  And if that's what you're hoping for, you certainly won't be disappointed; because that's exactly what you get in `The Mummy Returns,' written and directed by Stephen Sommers. The story begins in Egypt, where Rick O'Connell (Brendan Fraser) and his wife, Evelyn (Rachel Weisz) discover an ancient bracelet that had once belonged to a warrior known as `The Scorpion King (The Rock),' who, back in the day, had sold his soul to the god, Anubis, for control of his armies and domination of the world.  Now, it seems, The Scorpion King's resurrection is imminent, and if he succeeds and once again raises the armies of Anubis, he could very well take over or destroy the world.  Followers of Im-Ho-Tep (Arnold Vosloo), however, who are privy to this information as well, decide to resurrect their dark leader so that he can face The Scorpion King, defeat him, take control of Anubis' armies and conquer the world himself, putting them in control.  But the key to the whole plan lies with who has control of the bracelet at the time of The Scorpion King's resurrection.  And the O'Connells have taken it back home with them to London. 
	So the adventure begins in earnest, moving from Egypt to London, then back again to Egypt.  Along the way, there's plenty of mummies, fighting, and bugs, but very few surprises, except for one scene near the end when something quite unexpected happens.  The story itself gets somewhat lost in the muddle, but it doesn't really matter; plot is fairly insignificant in a movie like this, as long as it maintains at least a thread of credibility and can give the action some context.  And that it does, so all is well and it allows you to get on with what this movie is really all about, which-- simply put-- is having a good time.	With shades of `Indiana Jones' and `Star Wars' abounding, the real success of this movie lies in the fact that it never pretends to be anything other than what it is or what it was meant to be, and that is an entertaining, fun movie.  It's visually explosive, from the sweeping, desert vistas of the converging, battling armies, to the mummies and assorted demons and creatures generously sprinkled throughout.  And the hand-to-hand combat scenes between Evelyn and Anck-Su-Namun (Patricia Velazquez) are especially thrilling.  The one element of the film that doesn't seem to work too well has to do with a particular mode of transportation to which the O'Connells must resort upon their return to Egypt, and which ultimately plays a significant part in the outcome of the whole adventure.  It's something that seemingly would have been more appropriate in `The Adventures of Baron Munchausen' or `Peter Pan.'	As far as the performances, suffice to say that the actors involved all do their jobs well; after all, in a movie like this you're not going to find anyone struggling with `The Method.'  Fraser strikes a handsome, heroic pose-- call him a poor man's Indiana Jones-- and Weisz is becoming as Evelyn.  Most importantly, they all walk the walk and talk the talk, and Sommers keeps them on track and wisely avoids allowing any lapses into `camp' or tongue-in-cheek character interpretations, which makes this a solid, fun-filled, action-adventure movie that is what it is.	The supporting cast includes John Hannah (providing some comic relief as Jonathan Carnahan), Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje (Lock Nah), Freddie Boath (Alex O'Connell) and Obed Fehr (Ardeth Bay).  As with most sequels, you'll get more out of `The Mummy Returns' if you've seen the original, which had more of a story and, of course, would give you the background of the characters. But even on it's own and taken at face value, this movie is a feast for the senses, and just a lot of good fun.  Just don't go in expecting anything more than what the trailer promises; if you can do that, chances are you're going to enjoy the movie and have a good time.  I rate this one 7/10.

Most people compare this sequel to the first movie 'The Mummy', which is a good thing of course, but I haven't seen the first one, so no comparisons from me. So what can I tell you? Well, the movie isn't as bad as I expected. It's all to clear that the director's first thought wasn't about the script but about the many special effects, but i still quite liked the movie. What made this movie work for me was the humor. Normally this kind of movies takes itself much too serious, there is no place for any joke or funny situation at all. In The Mummy Returns this is different. Thanks to the humor, this movie was very enjoyable, but it is of course the many special effects that make this movie what it is. Don't expect anything real: a mummy coming to life, sucking the life out of people, armies of mythological creatures... will of course never exist in reality, but it certainly was nice to see. I guess it is best to qualify this movie as some excellent way to pass some boring hours on a cold and rainy afternoon. It's certainly not an intellectual movie, but I didn't mind about that when watching it. I give it a 6,5/10.

The Mummy Returns is maybe a step above the first one. The action is non-stop, and it does manage, for the most part, to rouse the audience, or at least me. The good guys are likable. Brendan Fraser is where he belongs. Rachel Weisz is beautiful. John Hannah amuses as Jonathan, and Freddie Boath manages not to annoy as Alex, the kid. He's pretty good as a smart-mouthed brat. The bad guys are, for the most part, fun to hate. Im-Ho-Tep is a good villain. Maybe he isn't given enough to do here, but he's still cool. Patricia Valazquez is a real stunner as his love interst, Anck-Su-Namun. She's probably the best thing about the film. Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje was good as Lock Nah, the main henchman. Perhaps the weakest part of the film is the Rock as the Scorpion King. The narration during the film's prologue is not nearly as good as it would be if we were watching the story develop. The Scorpion King is basically a boring character. His computer-animated doppleganger at the film's climax is neat, but it would have been better if there were some feelings towards that character.People who know their action flicks will notice that the Mummy Returns steals about every action scene from every action movie made in the past 20 years, quoting movies like Aliens, Indiana Jones, Jurassic Park 2 (why? that movie was terrible), and especially Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, with which, if you remember, The Mummy I was competing with in the box office successfully in May of 1999. They don't try to hide any of it. They even make a jest at Spielberg with a shadow against the moon from ET and Amblin Entertainment. It's all in good fun. You shouldn't be too angry at the sloppy script. If you are going to be angry, the shoddy computer animation should be your target. Still, it's not bad.

Mummy Returns takes the characters and story from the first film and develops on them in a big, big way. The situations and set-pieces are wilder, the odds even bigger and character arcs more complex.Set 10 years after the first movie Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz have made a rich living out of plundering tombs and pyramids. Who could have predicted that their old nemesis I'm-Ho-Tep would return faster and stronger than before.But I'm still having trouble seeing I'm-Ho-Tep as a villain. Surely it's the scheming, lying, conspiring supplicants that are the real villains. The look in his eyes at the end, when his lover betrays him, is heartbreaking. I can't root for him as a bad guy when he never really does anything bad. Sure he wants to rule the world and all but who doesn't?The effects are not the best (Star Wars Episode 2 used up all the space at ILM at the time) but there are loads of them and they're all lavish and imaginative. I HATE movies that are carried by SFX but Mummy Returns incorporates them into the story in a seamless way. How cool is the big balloon? Or the approach of Anubis' army?Most directors screw-up big budget, big scale movies (AVP, King Arthur, Sky Captain, Exorcist Prequel, Catwoman) but Stephen Sommers knows where the heart of this kind of movie is and delivers, once again, a cheeky adventure with loads and loads of action and enough story and character to back it up. Filmed in Panavision the 2.35:1 anamorphic picture is perfect and the Dolby/DTS 5.1 is very loud and thundering. A very good soundtrack indeed. The extras are total fluff and not worth the time.

After the financial success of "The Mummy" two years earlier, the sequel was inevitable. The big players from the first film are back, Brendan Fraser, Rachel Weisz, John Hannah, Arnold Vosloo and Oded Fehr. Stephen Sommers once again directs (and writes), Patricia Velasquez comes in to be a main player after her cameo in the first film, and young Freddie Boath plays the son of Rick and Evelyn who are now married. This time the cameo goes to Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson who plays The Scorpion King and who is replaced by a very bad CGI version of himself at film's finale.When the second sequel, "The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor" (2008), was released, Brendan Fraser went on record as saying that for "The Mummy Returns" they basically remade the film they had already made in 1999! This is absolutely true, some new characters and an expansion on the O'Connell romance have been put in to beef it up, while some Zombie Pygmies are around to add extra monster factor, but yes! It's a re-tread only with more money spent, more effects (and better effects apart from Scorpion King) and more noise. This actually is OK for those who enjoyed the first film immensely, because "Returns" is every bit as enjoyable as family blockbuster entertainment. The Worldwide box offices rang to the tune of over $330 million in profit. That's a lot of happy families you would think!.So yes, it's a bit of a cheat, but much like the film before it, it gets away with it because the makers do everything they can to entertain the action/adventure loving crowd. With legions of Anubis warriors, those awesome Pygmies and the all round funny by-play between a cast comfortable with the material (again), "The Mummy Returns" delivers exactly what can reasonably be expected of it. 7/10

Both the original and this are great fun and completely likable. Of course the sequel does have flaws, the plot isn't quite as strong as the one in the original, the scorpion king was a bit of a disappointment(he could've been designed better) and again like the original it is overlong. But it does have a sense of unpretentious fun, and that is great to see. The visuals are very impressive, and the music score, this time by Alan Silvestri is very effective, though I do prefer the Goldsmith. Although he isn't given as much to do, Arnold Vosloo still impresses as Imhotep, who I admit I did find scary in the original, not so much here, but Vosloo's performance is great. The other performances are fine too, Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz are both charming in the lead roles, and Patricia Velasquez is just beautiful beyond words as Meela Nais/Arnk Su Namun. Plus Freddie Boath is perfectly tolerable as Alexander, and John Hannah is fine too, same with Allun Armstrong of all people. All in all, a fun sequel, that shows that more of the same can actually work. The only other sequel that I have seen that is more of the same yet lives up exactly to the standard of its original is Home Alone 2:Lost in New York. 7/10 for Mummy Returns. Bethany Cox

The team of Evelyn (Rachel Weisz) and Rick O'Connell (Brendan Fraser) have increase by one with the addition of their son Alex (Freddie Boath). Together, they are treasure hunting and finds the Bracelet of Anubis. In ancient times, the Scorpion King used it to command the Army of Anubis. Now everybody is on a quest to stop the coming of the apocalyptic rising of the army of Anubis.The story is complicated and confusing. There is a lot of backstory to learn. The 15 minute prequel of The Rock as the Scorpion King didn't help any. It's more of an ad for the Scorpion King franchise. At least, it's easy to identify the good guys from the bad guys. So even if you don't understand what's happening, you know who to root for. The CGI and the swashbuckling makes up for some of the confusion.

The problem I had with the original film was that the script seemed to be written around the special effects , especially the CGI . Well the bad news about the sequel is that it suffers from the same problem multiplied by ten. Witness the opening prologue of massed armies fighting , an oasis appearing from nowhere and the scorpian king`s army overrunning a city all of which might have looked good on paper but on screen is badly executed due to some really apalling CGI . I don`t know what it is about this type of cinema technology but think of all the films where it`s been used in set pieces that fail to convince ( ESCAPE FROM LA , DIE ANOTHER DAY etc ) and watching it used in THE MUMMY RETURNS  left me shaking my head wondering why directors and FX maestros haven`t been able to improve upon it . Watching the action scenes in this movie is like watching a cartoon.Equally unconvincing and uninvolving is the screenplay which revolves around the bad guys wanting to get their hands on Rachel Weisz chest . Who can blame them ? you ask , well it`s not that sort of chest I`m talking about , it`s a treasure chest containing something or another which I didn`t bother to digest because the plot takes second place to a bunch of CGI inspired set pieces . Unfortunately most of the set pieces are stolen from the previous film which gave me a feeling THE MUMMY REMADE WITH A SEQUENCE STOLEN FROM JURASSIC PARK:THE LOST WORLD would have been a better title . And watch out for the number of scenes where one of the good guys is in serious trouble only to have the hero appear to save the day . It really does get tedious after the first three or four times it happensI may be accused of taking this film far too seriously and not realising it`s a dumb popcorn movie . Perhaps but what`s wrong with an intelligent popcorn movie ? And does anyone else miss the good old days when monsters were men dressed up in costumes or stop frame photography ?

This sequel opens in ancient Egypt and shows a warrior known as 'The Scorpion King' raise an army and set about conquering the known world. Eventually he is defeated and as he is about to die in the desert he prays to Anubis; he gives him a new army and he takes Egypt but is then taken by Anubis.The action then moves forward to 1932 and explorer Rick O'Connell and his wife Evelyn are searching a site in Egypt; Evelyn had strange visions that led her to the Bracelet of Anubis. They return to London with it and their son Alex puts it on; it locks onto his wrist and shows him a vision of Ahm Shere, in Egypt. Meanwhile a cult has raised Imhotep; hoping that he can defeat the Scorpion King and take command of his army… to do that they kidnap Alex and take him to Egypt; along the way Alex is told that he has seven days from the moment he put the bracelet on to get to Ahm Shere or he will die. His parents, along with his uncle Jonathan and Ardeth Bay, set off in pursuit and before the time limit is up they come across a variety of dangers and ultimately must confront the risen Scorpion King.Fans of the first film will almost certainly enjoy this; the plot is fairly ridiculous but that doesn't matter as the action barely stops from start to finish. The action is pretty good for the most part although some of the CGI is certainly showing its age; unfortunately this includes the Scorpion King himself. The central cast are pretty good; Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz have a good chemistry as Rick and Evelyn and John Hannah provides some good laughs as Johnathon. Shaun Parkes also provides some funny moments as Izzy, the pilot of a dirigible who has had bad experiences when working with Rick in the past. Overall this is a solid 'Boys' Own' adventure with little material that could offend and thrills that are suitable for older children and adults wanting good silly fun.

Of all my 200-something reviews here, this proves the most difficult to write. How do you justify a film so overtly poor in all traditional aspects? Maybe you don't – maybe it is enough that I leave you with my titular summary and hope you will have as much fun as I did watching 'The Mummy Returns'.Yet I could not to do this because it is a film that demands some evaluation. First, there are many many things wrong with this Mummy installment: its screenplay is a sketchbook mess with gaping plot holes, it suffers from the sequel-hubris of being 'big, bigger, epic', its one-liners are often wristslashingly cringeworthy, the villain characters are frighteningly flat, the animated pygmies some 2/3s into the movie are a joke, and on that note the CGI is so inexplicably bad that it may actually wound you to watch just five years later (it is bizarrely much worse than in the first Mummy film), and lastly there is an unbearably annoying young-Anakin-like boy – Rick and Evelyn's son – whom is given far too much importance in the story and far too much screen time in the film. In other words, 'The Mummy Returns' is camp of Batman and Robin-like proportions.But my god, it is quite possibly the most well-executed and entertaining camp I have ever seen. Its predecessor 'The Mummy (1999)' proves a wonderful little Indiana Jones romp with a crisp freshness and beautiful settings. 'Returns' is equally sprawling with stunning ancient Egyptian locations and buildings but much of the novelty of the whole premise has regrettably worn off from the first film. It therefore goes to great lengths to compensate for its sequel-shortcomings by dishing out everything on a larger scale. This means kinetic, dynamic heartstopping action in all kinds of time eras with all kinds of scope. It is also, thanks to this no-nonsense approach, bathed in urgency which means no slow-paced moments to reflect on its quality.The pinnacle of 'The Mummy Returns' success is its characters. Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz undoubtedly have a remarkably comedic rapport that was fully showcased when the series kick-started, and is equally engrossing this time around. Although these two are the goldmine of the film, it offers plenty of goodies from the rest of its cast. Oded Fehr and Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje are excellent and fun to watch in their respective parts, as is the triumvirate of goofy comedic-sidekick-ish badguys with their assigned quirks. It is constantly poised on the brink of silliness, but then, so is Pirates of the Caribbean and the mainstream audience is crazy about that series. I strongly believed that this is a highly underrated film in terms of entertainment value and it is a shame Fraser wasn't showered with awards for his hilarious performance.7 out of 10

I remember the day when i saw The Mummy (1999) and thought to myself, "this is a damn good movie! I'd love to see the sequel!" And, sure enough, the sequel was released just two days later. The opening of the film had already utilized many special effects including the Tower at Thebes and the two armies fighting till the death. Also, The Rock (even though his only line was in Ancient Egyptian) was still pretty solid. After an intense war scene, we finally arrive on the O'connells. Rick (Brendan Fraser) is now a family man. his son, Alex, shows as much strength and warmth that both Evy and Rick have. Throughout the film, the relationship within the family grew and amassed to that of an odd family. The film doesn't slow down yet, we are then treated to beautiful sets that have you believe they actually were in Egypt all those years ago. Also, Alan Silvestri has a truly magnificent score that is used to its fullest potential. The film takes us to Hamunaptra, where Imhotep is found inside of some cocoon like object. later, we are at the museum in a truly memorable fight sequence. There are also some nice scenes to look at, interesting dialogue. And, some AMAZING special effects.Overall Consensus: The Mummy Returns is, without a doubt, the best Sequel ever made. It's fun, engaging, Beautifully shot/acted and will make the audience feel as if sand is between their toes, wanting to see more of the action.

"The Mummy Returns" is significantly weaker than the first film. Rather than explore a new story, the movie had to rehash plot points from the first one. The reincarnation aspects were forced, the Scorpion King was an afterthought (just look at the CGI) and Imhotep was a shell of himself.Ultimately, the worst decision made by this franchise was introducing a child into the story. I used to say that Short Round was the most annoying child in cinema, but I've changed my mind. Alex has now taken the top spot.While I liked seeing Rick and Evy back in action, and some of the fight scenes were cool, there wasn't much else to enjoy about this movie.Best Character: Evy
Best Scene: The Double Decker Bus
Best Quote: "What are you talking about? I missed." - Lock-Nah
Best Piece of Score: "Just an Oasis"

I loved 'The Mummy' and I wasn't disappointed with 'The Mummy Returns'. The film is easy viewing and fun. It isn't intended to be a great masterpiece. As ever the special effects were good and the humour lighthearted.

Two years later and here comes the sequel. So who's ready for even more thrills?? Stephen Sommers once again directs and fans of the first will be pleased. This film seems less horror-like, less dark, and so I don't think it can surpass the first but don't get me wrong it's far from being a dud of a sequel. John Hannah is back!! In fact, all of the actors from the previous film return, much to my delight, although are there a few new characters of course. For one there's a kid in this film, something that worried me a bit at first in the trailers. But he doesn't distract audiences from the really important characters, and so I can live with his existence. Also, the sexy Patricia Vasquez plays a much larger role in this film as Imhotep's re-incarnated girlfriend. The story is a bit longer-feeling but it keeps you interested, the important part.Now, the SFX are outrageously well executed for the most part, but a few things were a tad bit questionable. First off, I love the end battle. It's dramatic, sad, and definitely Sommers-material. But the close-ups of The Rock as the Scorpion King were a bit too, well odd looking. His body didn't seem to blend well if you ask me. Another scene was Imhotep's suicide scene, which is tragic but is almost ruined by the look of this crevice of lost souls or whatever you want to call it. It looked rather unconvincing unfortunately. Pushing those aside, the Anubis army was quite simply stunning.This time around, Alan Silvestri does the score and he does a good enough job, though I find it would've been better if Jerry Goldsmith had returned instead. But all in all, it is a decent sequel, serving its place as an adventure/action thriller.