They really upped the ante with all the stunning visuals and effects on this one. It actually had a good story (still not as amazing or in-depth as the first film), told properly, albeit some convalusion. The fight scenes were of decent length and better choreographed. Cinematography was excellent and the score on point. 8/10 from me.

'The Matrix Revolutions' is the much-anticipated conclusion to the Wachowski Brothers' cultic sci-fi trilogy, whose previous entries were 'The Matrix' and 'The Matrix Reloaded.' In the series' final installment, the messiah figure, Neo, does battle with the diabolical forces that have imprisoned most of humanity in a world of cyber unreality via a massive computer program known as The Matrix.Of the three films, 'Revolutions' is definitely the least imaginative and the least interesting. What separated the first two episodes in the series from most other action films was the willingness on the part of the filmmakers to bring some thematic depth and narrative complexity to a genre that, all too often, finds no room for such qualities. The previous two films didn't always succeed in their endeavor - often emerging as more hollow and pretentious than meaningful and profound - but they managed to remain intriguing even in their moments of failure. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said for 'Revolutions,' which spends so much time on repetitive action scenes and special effects that there is little time left over for storyline and theme. In a strange way, Neo himself ends up getting lost in this film, dropping off the radar screen for astonishingly long stretches of time, only to re-emerge periodically to remind us that there really is supposed to be a purpose buried somewhere beneath all this ear-splitting commotion (this could be re-titled 'Finding Neo'). The sad fact, though, is that, once we arrive at the climactic scene to which all three films have been building, the resolution turns out to be a ham-handed muddle, utterly lacking in clarity and coherence After an almost six-hour-long buildup over the course of the three films, the audience is left scratching its collective head wondering just what it was that happened before the closing credits started rolling by. Perhaps smarter people than I can figure all this out for, frankly, after the overall disappointment occasioned by this film, I couldn't muster either the desire or the effort to probe very deeply into the matter.It goes without saying that the special effects in this film are spectacular - we would expect nothing less - but what we don't get from 'Revolutions' - which we did from the two previous 'Matrix' films - is that little something extra in the form of intelligence and sophistication that made them more than just the bland, over-produced, assembly-line products they easily could have become - and which 'Revolutions' very nearly is. Even the stolid earnestness of Keanu Reeves can't convince us this time around that there is anything hidden under all those cool gadgets and explosions worth our looking into. Thus endeth the Matrix series, not with a bang but with a whimper - intellectually speaking that is.

I found this better than the second Matrix film ("Reloaded") but not anywhere as intriguing as the first film. Perhaps they shouldn't have made ANY sequels.Once again you have the same problems: too much verbiage that you can't make sense of, and too much violence. Regarding all the techno-talk, what good is it if you audience doesn't understand what's going on and are lost most of the time?After awhile, frankly, especially with the unlikable lead characters, I didn't care what happened. As I said in the second movie's review, they should have made just one tremendous Matrix movie, even if it were an hour longer. The sequels did nothing to enhance the legacy of that film.

The final film in the MATRIX trilogy and fans can breathe a sigh of release; (mostly) gone is the endless technobabble and philosophising of the middle film in the series, instead replaced by full scale action and resolution to the problems seen in the previous two films. This movie feels fresh and exciting because it offers us things previously unseen in the films. For the most part, this takes place in the "real" world, with only infrequent exertions into the computer-controlled fantasy world itself. It feels a lot stronger, gritter and harder than before because there is strong violence here, shocking bloodshed, and people really do die this time around. In many ways this makes it feel like more of an adult movie. Admittedly, things do start off a little strained. Although there is some good suspense and questioning in an isolated subway station, the action doesn't pick up until we get to a major gun battle in an S&M club.This battle is actually a little disappointing, although it is good to see the character Seraph return to the screen. Then we're re-introduced to the slimy French villain from THE MATRIX RELOADED, and his stunningly buxom wife played by Monica Bellucci (no complaints here). Yet the suspense fizzles instead of crackles, and the most entertainment here is to be had from the performance of the Train Man (played by Bruce Spence, the crazy chopper pilot from MAD MAX 2). It's certainly underwhelming, and lots more pointless inactivity doesn't bode well for the rest of the film. Then things suddenly start happening – it begins with the stabbing of a nurse and ends with Neo fulfilling his destiny. There are shocks, genuine surprises, and a fantastically-depicted war between humans and machines. It involves people walking around in ALIENS-style power robots and shooting machine guns at thousands of those pesky silver fish-like flying robots and it certainly does not disappoint in terms of ferocity, impact, and absolutely stunning special effects work.Things culminate in a scary, powerful finale involving Neo returning to the (now polluted) Matrix world to take on Agent Smith one last time. A fantastic and fitting conclusion to the lengthy battles in the earlier films, this strives to top them all. I loved the battle but bear in mind the kung fu is minimal compared to before. Performances are all assuredly good, with characters having by now settled into their parts, with top recommendations going to Hugo Weaving whose character of Agent Smith has major screen presence and makes for a threatening, frightening villain unlike last time. Basically I loved this movie and would be happy to re-watch it when the chance arrives. All three films are different, and very good indeed, so go check them out if you haven't done so already.

The Matrix Revolutions (2003) is very underrated trilogy of the mythology to understand. I know for a lot of people is not that good and it is terrible movie to watch. The first time I watch it, I couldn't finish it because I did not understand it and I felt bored with the movie. The second time I kept watching I just enjoyed the movie and I wanted to know more, what will happen next. I think the movie end perfectly the trilogy, tough it did lack on a story and on the action, there very barely in it, that it was in the original and the second movie. It is one of my personal favorite Keanu Reeves movies amd I love this movie to death I don't care what anyone says. The movie it self's focus more on the humans and the battles against the machines on the planet Zion, more than they are in the phone line of Matrix. I think this was a brilliant end to a brilliant trilogy. If you didn't understand what the matrix was by the end of the film, then you're never going to get it! Many viewers preferred Revolutions to Reloaded, thinking it was a simpler, more straight-ahead action movie. Though it may have appeared that way, nothing could be further from the truth. Revolutions was a mind-blowing layered ending that honored and respected the plot threads and themes introduced in the first two movies. The character arcs were satisfying and true to the characters introduced in The Matrix. The creators continued to challenge our understanding of the Matrix and its purpose, avoiding the temptation to serve us a bunch of "their" answers on a platter. That, to us, would have been a sellout of the vision they've been constructing, and wouldn't have been fair to us. Nor would it have been true to the spirit of the previous movies - they've never told us what things meant, they've only shown us the door. Everything that has a beginning has an end. In this explosive final chapter of the Matrix trilogy, Neo, Morpheus and Trinity battle to defend Zion, the last real-world city, against the onslaught of the machines that have enslaved the human race. And, now as Neo learns more about his heroic powers--including the ability to see the codes of things and the people, he faces the consequences of the choice made in The Matrix Reloaded. For Neo, that means going where no human has dared - into the heart of Machine City and into a cataclysmic showdown with the exponentially more powerful renegade program Smith. The revolution is now: The Matrix Revolutions.I wish they made more films about the Matrix. The fighting, story and the conspiracy theories that emerged from these movies created a new world for millions of people out there. Some of the conspiracy theories even created a new "religion", the CGI was at the time freaking impressive, the fighting in slow-mo were even more epic and the story itself captured a lot of hearts. Just saying to all who think this movie (and/or the first two) sucked balls,- you are a minority. Movie is great, second one being the best in the trilogy. It is my second favorite film in the trilogy because it ends the story and answers what happened with Neo (Keanu Reeves), he saved Whole planet and defeat Smith (Hugo Weaving) on the end of the movie. This movie may not be the best in storyline, but hell it knows how to make action! That end fight and emotional ending leaving behind a plot for sequel ...Second really expanded the meaning of matrix and the whole idea so I don't understand the hate.There is a lot of memorable moments the Smith vs Neo climax rain scene is one of my favorite movies scenes of all time. Anyway I love this movie it is not good as the greatest or the best movie or that good, but it is still a worthy sequel to watch and a good end to the trilogy. It is one of my personal Keanue Reeves favorite movies and I love this movie to death. I am giving this 9/10 and only because one of the characters dies in this movie not telling which one.

This successful futuristic saga is formed by ¨Matrix¨in which Neo aware the world he is living in is an illusion maintained by machines that have taken over earth , and following : ¨The Matrix Reloaded¨ and ¨Matrix Revolutions¨ in which takes place the final battle between machines and humans ; it holds similar artistic and technician team . The first movie came out in 1999 but the last two parts of the trilogy make their stand in May and November , 2003 . In part 2 , the machines learn the location of Zion , the last human city and send an army to quash all resistance . In this part 3 , deals with the impressive and nail-biting battle between the
destructive machines and Zion citizens . Overwhelming and spectacular third part with some of the best action scenes ever made , as Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very little chances of survival and ultimately takes place the definitive battle . Perception: Our day-in, day-out world is real. Reality: That world is a hoax, an elaborate deception spun by all-powerful machines of artificial intelligence that control us. In a world of 1s and 0s...are you a zero, or The One? .Be Afraid Of The Future .The Fight for the .Future Begins .Believe the unbelievable .Reality is a thing of the past. Free your mind. Reload before the revolution begins. Think big. Everything that has a beginning has an end. The IMAX RevolutionThis exciting sequel is full of thrills , cutting-edge visuals , stylist innovations , fights , tension , suspense and groundbreaking scenes , but also several commercial elements , including computer-simulated violence . This is a dynamic, fast-paced and amusing movie , though overlong . It's an enjoyable , if somewhat light-headed piece of escapism with state-of-art special effects and straightforward screenplay . Big-budgeted film by the great producer Joel Silver led to break into the booming Sci-Fi/adventure/fantasy market plenty of inventiveness and imagination . Full of action, it's complemented by rousing scenes , breathtaking flights and struggles are spotlights . It deals with Neo : Keanu Reeves ¨who is thought to be the chosen one¨ as he finds himself trapped between the Matrix and the Real World. And while the human city of Zion defends itself against the massive invasion of the machines as Neo fights to end the war at another front while also opposing the rogue Agent Smith : Hugo Weaving . Neo's associates set out to free him from The Merovingian since it's believed that he is the One who will end the war between humans and the machines. What they do not know is that there is a threat from a third party, someone who has plans to destroy both worlds. The rebel leaders estimate that they have 72 hours until 250,000 probes discover Zion and destroy it and its inhabitants. During this, Neo has to save Trinity : Carrie-Anne Moss from a dark fate and she along with Morpheus finally meet Merovingian : Lambert Wilson who is accompanied by a gorgeous Monica Bellucci. T is a dark time for the world in this third adventure. The epic war between man and machine reaches a thundering crescendo : the Zion military, aided by courageous civilian volunteers and led by councillor Hamann : Anthony Zerbe and Major Commandant : Harry Lennix desperately battle to hold back the marauding Sentinel invasion from overtaking the last human fortress . Neo : Keanu Reeves , Morpheus : Laurence Fishburne and Trinity : Carrie Anne Moss race against time and again advised by the Oracle : Gloria Foster to encounter the Keymaker who would help them reach the Source. While the human city of Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very little chances of survival. The city , the last outpost of humanity , is defended by valiant warriors : Harry Lennix, Gina Torres , Nora Gaye against the massive invasion of the machines to save the humanity as Neo fights to end the war at another front while also opposing the cunning Agent Smith : Hugo Weaving.This is an action-packed, booming follow-up with some of the best action scenes ever filmed , including awesome visual effects by John Gaeta. This thrilling movie contains impressive fights , chills , breathtaking designs , dense philosophy and many other things . From start to finish the comic-book action-packed and extreme violence are continued and it's fast movement, that's why the picture results to be pretty entertaining ; furthermore, displaying lots of state-of-art and high-tech images, along with spectacular combats in martial-arts style staged by Yue Woo Ping who also made ¨Kill Bill¨ and ¨Crouching tiger, hidden dragon¨ . Contrived beyond belief with thrilling visual effects that play like video games , but slickly calculated to please 2000s audiences . Moving and pulsing musical score by Don Davis . Magnificent , glamorous production design by Owen Paterson . Colorful and imaginative cinematography by Bill Pope . The motion picture was stunningly written , produced -along with Joel Silver- and directed by Larry and Andy Wachowski-The Wachowski Brothers- .

The final episode of Neo's journey, before the 4th film was even an idea, sees the chosen one battle Agent Smith to the bitter end! Smith has evolved and found a way to be everyone everywhere without using the body-snatching technique his former Agent self used. Yet his only focus is destroying the one that changed his programming in the first place!More Oracle, Architect and Vampire mansplaining does not move the story forward by much at all! As the majority of the action is happening outside the matrix, the code-defying fight sequences we're all looking forward to are very few and further apart. That's not to say there's less CGI in Zion! As the sentinels swarm the dock, Neo is fighting Smiths to the death in the Matrix, and both inspire awe at the use of special FX and CGI!If the first film was birth or rebirth, the second was living life and so consequently this film is dying and death. But, as the Architect told as in Reloaded, this version of Neo is the 6th spawning. And as with any reinvention, it is stronger, faster and better in all ways, so the results may be different!Neo and Trinity continue their perfect relationship and even Morpheus rekindles his lost love! But they pale under the weight of a billion bullets and millions of dead machines that carpet the Dock. Even the Matrix in their screens has transformed its scrolling green symbols due to the constant of change.Philosophically much can be said about the different interpretations of life, its meaning, and its goal, just as each character in the film have different points of view! The balance between the Oracle and Archtect is one of purposeful imbalance. As is the opposite of Neo in Smith! And like life, it all boils down to choices.Your choice to watch. Your choice to enjoy it or hate it. But as trilogies go, Revolutions closes the story nice and tightly, with no loose ends. Which makes the upcoming 4th instalment all the more curious!

The first Matrix movie is one of the more ground breaking movies in the last decade as evidence by a pretty massive influence on pop culture. I could immerse myself in this review of just how great I think the first movie is, but I digress. The second was received with so much hype that it couldn't possibly live up to in all fairness, but I thought the second movie was wildly entertaining and a bit like the first one in the fact that it made you think quite a bit after the movie was over (The first one "blows your mind" an over-used phrase when it comes to reviewing movies, but it certainly applies in this case).  However, I thought the second had too much action, I believe Keanu has close to 5 fight scenes.  Morpheus has one, Trinity has 2 I think, all this fighting I think cuts out of the plot which is why the the Matrix is cool to begin with.  The action is fun and out of this world at times, but without a good enough plot, a viewer can feel disconnected from the characters in the action.  The plot of the second movie I did enjoy, I just thought more time should have gone into it.  I thought there were many twists and turns and it ends with a decent "cliffhanger."My own problem was that unlike most of the critics I went into the third movie with a lot of expectations, but I knew seeing the first Matrix and the previous Wachowski Brothers movie (Bound from 1996) that this trilogy was going to end a bit differently than a conventional sci-fi film...and it did, but more so in a way that I think a real fan of "The Matrix" is still left wanting more, or let me re-phrase, a little more attention to detail.  Revolutions does have bright spots, as much as I love a rock-em, sock-em WELL DONE Kung-Fu in any movie, thankfully that part of the Matrix was cut back.  How many times do I need to see Keanu just entirely beat the tar out of some random machine that never really dies? I like the fact that Jada-Pinkett Smith was at least put to some more use(although it could have been more) in this last film, she adds spark in basically every scene she's in.  The final Neo-Smith fight is awesome. I think the rain alone creates a very cool atmosphere, but a death fight in the rain is certainly something that isn't new to an audience viewing an action movie.  It's still the same basic plot, but I think too much of the plot is revolved around the destruction of Zion.  I think the battle sequence is something around 25 minutes?  That's way too long for a computer generated battle...at least if your movie is barely over 2 hours.  For a 4 hour epic like the 3rd Lord of the Rings for example it works because they've taken so long to develop the characters that the action is more thrilling because you feel so attached.  The supporting characters are barely developed that are fighting in that sequence, The Kid has a back story in the Ani-matrix, but Capt. Mifune or the vast array of other characters that get blown to bits, I have no clue who they are, so what does all that destruction mean to the viewer?  It's a huge display of visual effects that in the end, kind of have a weakened purpose.
With the Matrix I feel more so attached to the ideas presented rather than specific characters. As much as you gotta dig Mr. Whoa(Keanu) and the ever present bad-ass himself Mr. Fishburne(great in Mystic River by the way), and the under-rated Carrie-Anne Moss, I just don't feel as attached to them as I would to say, well Sam-wise(Sean Astin) from Lord of the Rings. I'm not trying to compare, I'm just offering an example. Also, because it is a little over 2 hours there's no time to get into some of the other cool supporting characters.  Monica Belluci has one stinking line, I mean she's a very talented actress (See the Passion or foreign flick Malena), but hell at least give her a few more to see her in that dress, WOW! Lastly, the overall flow just seems like the Wachowski's didn't know exactly how to end it, not enough time is really given to any of the main or supporting characters, I seem to keep harping on this, but if you are going to end a trilogy you don't have to come to end-all-be-all on everything, but it would be nice to go into more detail than they do.  A scene between Seraph and Neo in the teahouse is so light and generally cool for example, but nothing like this really appears in the third. Like what is this underlying connection between the Frenchman and Seraph for example?  What is that about?
All in all, the Matrix was a fun ride, interesting early philosophy (the first movie), unbelievable special effects (all three just incredible), and great Kung-Fu, but it just could have ended differently with more depth. So I tried to write this (while being sick at school), but as un-biased as I could for someone who isn't a fan of the trilogy.  Overall rating: 6.5/7.0 out of 10 for the Matrix Revolutions, course if you're a fan, you'll probably dig this way more than that.P.S. - I seriously hope the Wachowski's don't pull a George Lucas and plan on making a bigillion more of these movies because while I thoroughly enjoyed the Matrix Trilogy, I'm Matrixed Out. No need for Matrix Rebooted, or Regenerated, or Regurgitated, you get the picture.

I'm watching Revolutions this time again in 2012, and now being almost 8-9 years older, i understood and liked the movie which back there in 2003 i felt disappointed.This movie is much better than the piece of crap movies we get to see nowadays (I mean in the science fiction category). To those who wanted logic and gave bad rating to this movie... i'm sure they did not went to see logic in Avengers and Spiderman. Makes me laugh when people speak of logic in such type of movies.What a dose of special effects, which were really fantastic, specially the final battle, with $110 million budget it outcast many biggies of nowadays.I personally believed that those who felt disappointed was because:1.They wanted to see the normal happy ending. 2. Did not want to see a character die. 3. Wanted to know what happens after the end. 4. They have watched Matrix 1 & 2 too many times and this one came too soon (6 months after reloaded... it should have released 1 year after) 5. They wanted to compare it with Matrix 1 & 2 and did not want this one to be different.Well... Enjoy the action and special effects and take it as a movie itself and don't compare it with Matrix 1 & 2. Each has its own style.

Spoiler Alert This third edition of the Matrix series was just as great as the other with the visual and audio effects, but the ending was a let down.  Even though you could see it, coming from the point that Neo has his little accident with the power cable.  All though the end was bad, it does leave a little gap for another sequel, and another chance to end it right.As far as my feelings overall, it reminds me too much of Star Wars: Episode I.  Think about it.  We find a female in trouble. (Queen Amidalia and the Oracle)  Next, we meet stupid people.  (Jar-jar and the little girl who is the last exile.  What a coincidence) Then the warriors go to fight evil. (Qui-gon & Obi-wan and Neo & Trinity)  After a lot of mixed other stuff, we arrive at two final battles, one with armies and one with main characters. (Q-g & O-w meet Darth Maul and Neo & Tri. meet Smith.)  Both movies have good fights, but then everyone dies.  (Obi-wan dies just a little later than the others do)  After all that, we are told that we should look to the future for hope.  (Let us not forget the idea that we have to make a choice to do so.)  The only thing that is different is that Star Wars jumps from battle to battle every few minutes and Matrix waits until one is done and then switches.Overall, I do think that the movie is okay.  The effects do out-weigh the plot in this one, just because the other two Matrix movies back it up.  I would give it a 7.5 out of ten if I could, but they do not allow half points.

I don't care what you learned in your Philosophy courses, this movie wasn't any good. I don't say this because it was "too deep," because it wasn't, I say this because it was a film that failed miserably at everything it set out to do.First off, the battle for Zion.  This would have been interesting, had it not been a case of a bunch of minor characters being the focal point. Neo, Morpheus and Trinity are the central characters of this film, and they were nowhere to be found in what was supposed to the biggest action scene. While the concept was cool, it just came off as watching some kid you don't know at an arcade play video games. Sure, some of the stuff is neat, but there's no emotional attachment. I could have also done without this battle including every single war movie cliche ever.  The momment I saw the kid tip his cart over, I knew exactly what was going to happen, and I was correct. Not because I'm smart, but because I've seen it done in dozens of other movies.Then we get to the script.  Here is an excerpt, more or less:NEO: What am I supposed to do? ORACLE: You know what you're supposed to do. NEO: Ok. ORACLE: By the way, I'm a different actress, I better explain that every time I'm on screen.This goes on for about 20 minutes or so and makes you want to put your lip over your head and suck your eyeballs out of the sockets.  In fact, I'd say that a good 60% of the script consists of characters saying "You know what you need to do" "You know the answer" "When the time comes, you'll know." This is fine in a comic book or a novel, where we know a character's thoughts, and there's room for introspection, but on film it just doesn't work. Screenwriting 101, people.Also, when did they replace the actors with wax statues? Keanu is Keanu, but even since Reloaded, the acting seemed to drop off.  I've always thought that Morpheus was the most interesting character in Martix lore, and Larry Fishburne usually is a high point of the movies, but he sleepwalked through this one, mailed in every line and had a look on his face that seemed to say "I really don't wanna do this any more." This is probably due to the fact that they really didn't give any of the principal characters anything important or interesting to do. Morpehus was relegated to playing second banana to Niobi, which pretty much was a total betrayal of his character. The same guy who gave a speech to fire up Zion is now just sitting around being yelled at?As for the philosophy stuff, there wasn't all that much in this one, which was one of the positives, because if I had to sit through another half hour speech about causality, I'd declare holy war on france.  But not to fear, this one's chock full of religious symbolism.  If you never made the connection that Neo was supposed to be Christ, well.. this movie will not only make that clear, they will beat you over the head with it, to the point where a cross actually appears on Neo's chest, and he's dragged off while in a crucifix position.  Why not just end the movie with 100 years later everyone celebrating a holiday called "Neomas?"  Despite all the Matrix fans who say that this is a film designed to "deprogram" people and "open minds," and all the Matrix fans I met who bash christianity, this is a pretty pro-christian movie.When I first saw the Revolutions trailer, I said "This fight between Smith and Neo had better be the best throwdown ever caught on film."  Well, it wasn't.  Now, I'm not gonna go on a tirade about the CGI, because even though it looks like The Sims fighting, that's what you expect in the Matrix series.  My problem is how on a whole, the fight was just pretty un-interesting.  It's basiclly like watching Dragonball Z. Stuff blows up, they punch each other through buildings and fly around.  The problem simply is that the first Matrix was so innovative, they just were unable to top themselves, no matter how hard they tried. It just seemed like everything they did in terms of action and fights was just... old.  They even just redo the lobby fight from the first film, except this time the bad guys are on the ceiling.As for the ending, I wasn't as angry about it as some other people were. I can see why it ended that way, and I think in a way you have to respect the risk that went with ending the trilogy like they did.This movie seemed like it was running on fumes, and that ultimatly was the failure.  I think that if they had not shot Reloaded and Revolutions back to back, if they had time to say "What worked in Revolutions?" before they did the third, they would have been able to come up with something better. But alas, they ended up with what will most likely prove to be one of the most disapointing films of all time.  And worse even is the fact that Reloaded and Revolutions take away from the original. I tried watching Matrix the other day, and it just wasn't as good now that I know the full story and most of the disapointing answers to the questions asked in the original.So those are my problems with the movis, but I've got one other problem pertaining to Matrix Revolutions.  I'm pretty sick of the main defense of this movie being "You didn't understand it!" or "You had too many expectations!"  Please.  The movie is flawed, horribly flawed.  Just because it has "The Matrix" in the title, doesn't mean it's good.  It's ok to dislike this film, you can still call yourself a matrix fan. Heck, I hate Rocky V, but I still call myself a fan of the Rocky movies. If you loved it, great, that's ok.  But if you realized that it's not good, don't grasp at straws trying to prove to yourself that you liked it, I'm sure your compatriots over in the mIRC Matrix Chatroom will love you nonetheless.Also, you really dont have to be a rocket scientist to understand the Matrix Trilogy. We're not dealing with 8 1/2 here. So if you wanna respond to someone who didn't like this movie, don't play the "I'm smarter than you because I liked this" card, because that's just silly... it's a movie, not a way of life (if you think it's a way of life, please get help immediatly.)So before you're about to call someone a mental midget for daring to dislike a Matrix film.. just think: What would Jesu...err...Neo do?

We all know the original Matrix was easily the pinacle. But that's because it grabbed out attentions as something brand new. The first movie, if done correctly as the Matrix was, can open our eyes to new ideas we never considered in any strain of our imagination. I'll admitt, Reloaded was a bit slow and perhaps a bit tedious at times. It was saved by an amazing Neo vs. Thousands of Smiths' battle, an even more amazing highway scene centered around Morpheus, and the appearance of the amazing Monica Belluci (a character I wish we'd heard more from the in the 3rd installment). Now as for Revolutions. Unless you're unrealistic or a mass-media critic, who all hate anything outside of artsy or useless Indy movies that get ZERO major release...you'll enjoy and perhaps love Revolutions. You get clarity to a lot of questions. You get resolution. No cliffhangers. People die and people survive, I won't dare say whom. You are brought all the way from dispair to happiness. Instead of simply giving the cheesy ending, the Matrix's "end" is proper and sensible. Of course there are some plot holes, but I dare anyone and everyone to find a movie without numerous mistakes or unanswered questions. More and more directors should heed the advice of David Lynch and allow the audience to interpret a few things for themselves. Keep them thinking. (I won't open up a Lynch debate, that's for another time and place) In the end, you'll enjoy Revolutions. It is action-packed with amazing special effects and the usual above-average acting and amazing creativity in the choreography of the fight scenes. Agent Smith shines in a stellar performance by Hugo Weaving. His words to Neo throughout his battle are stellar. His encounter with the Oracle, awesome. Keanu, Fish, Carrie-Anne, Jada, and others for the fight for good are also as sharp as they need to be. In the end, Revolutions is everything a true fan of the Matrix wants. And if they ask for more, they are not only guilty of being unrealistic, but also asking too much for an amazing trilogy. A trilogy I believe should be held in the same breath as Star Wars (the original three), Back to the Future, Indiana Jones, and numerous other action-drama based trilogies. I'm sure I'll be adding the Lord of the Rings trilogy to that list, barring a collapse with the Return of the King (another debate for another time).

Having now seen the full trilogy along with The Animatrix, I feel that it is safe to say that the body of work is quite an achievement.  While I did prefer the original, I don't think that it is necessarily due to the quality of the film as much as the fact that it was my first venture into the world of the Matrix.  I feel quite strongly that the original film has been grossly overrated despite being a good movie.  It was just as porous in its logic, and certainly the corniest of the trilogy.The last film is perhaps the coldest of the three, and yet the most intellectually interesting.  The first barely contained much originality of philosophy.  With each film, however, the trilogy veered off further and further into surreal philosophy.  Still, although the most interesting, it's that coldness and detachment that made me like this film the least.I am sure this, like Lord of the Rings, will go down in history and become a beloved trilogy.  To me, however, it is the achievement of the films moreso than the films themselves that impress.  Unlike the original three star wars, I do not hold a special place in my heart for these films.  Instead I look back upon them as a piece of film history.The one piece I will remember is The Animatrix.  Now THAT was a great work.