The Wicker Man is a horror movie by virtue of the fact that it occasionally jumps out at you, is dark, and wants to disturb you with its strange imagery. Horror movies are not always scary, but mostly because audiences have become desensitized to the tricks and traps of filmmakers over the years trying to give us the willies. That said, The Wicker Man is one of the most unintentionally hilarious movies of the year and well worth your time, if only to be mocked.Officer Edward Malus (Nicolas Cage) finds himself in the middle of a drug-addled bender after failing to save an atypically creepy horror movie child from an exploding car. He grieves and pops pills, probably because he wasn't harmed in the blast, despite having his head in the car window. Then, he receives a letter from his ex-girlfriend, Willow (Kate Beahan). It seems Willow is living on a private island now and her child is missing, possibly secreted away by the very people she is living with! As an audience, we already know that the daughter belongs to Cage, since such a thing would be far more dramatic and give him ample reason to turn Summerisle upside down. But Edward Malus does not realize this. Perhaps he is too busy being distracted by the Neo-Pagan Amish community that lives on the island, where men are kept submissive by the powerful female Sisters that run the place. Or it could be he is preoccupied by all of the bee hives around the island, since the Sisters of Summerisle deem it to be their most important crop. Are we surprised that Malus has an allergy to bees? It never really is explained how the people of Summerisle sustain themselves on just honey.Whatever the reason, Malus bumbles around the island, growing increasingly more and more horrified by the events transpiring around him. A feminist bitch teaching an English class about the atrocities of men? Clearly this island is the bastion of Satan himself. Ah, but we find a clue here. Despite the fact that all of the residents of the island insist that there is no girl, there is a single unoccupied desk in the middle of class. Cage then opens the desk, only to be startled by a crow and screams "What?!" At that point, we are thinking along the same lines.But hold on: these are the best parts of the film. Up until now, the plot hasn't started to collapse in on itself, though we can see the stress fractures running along the edges. Malus spots a girl in the distance after popping some more pills in the middle of the night and gives chase into a nearby barn, where he barely escapes death and completely fails to thrill us. Undaunted, he continues to be lied to by everyone on the island, including his ex-girlfriend, who seems to watch everything transpire like a deer in the headlights. We know she is up to no good, though she could at least pretend to care.Finally, we have some revelations. It seems young, misplaced Rowan was born during a harvest year when the crops failed. Dear god, they are going to sacrifice her to save their honey! Based on this hunch, Malus then punches out an Innkeeper, karate chops Leelee Sobieski into submission, ducks into a bear costume, and sneaks into the ceremony to save the little girl that may or may not be the subject of a sacrifice. But then, we stopped taking The Wicker Man seriously a long time ago. Perhaps it would be easier to take the movie as seriously as it does if Nicolas Cage wasn't flailing around like a drunk in half of his scenes. Or maybe the movie is just bad by default.I wouldn't dream of giving the ending away, but it is far less effective than that of the original movie, which I decided to watch after seeing this. It almost feels as though this version of The Wicker Man was pulled together through vague recollections of the original after a long night of alcohol abuse. It's not necessarily a bad thing to try out new stuff with old material, but the minute your hero comes to the rescue dressed as a bear, you should know something has gone horribly awry.

A phenomenal achievement in awfulness. It's actually hilariously awful.First off...Nicholas Cage must now have made it to the finals in the Over-Emoting Category in his acting class. Wearing new hair plugs and with a face that has been lifted so many times his pinned back ears seem to be straining to touch in the back he oozes not only a sick smarmiess but creates a "hero" character that you have no vested interest in.I don't know what it is with Neil Labute and female characters. He makes females out to be totally deviant and evil...and pays them back by having Cage punch several of them directly in the face and call them all "b****es" a few times too. I've enjoyed LaBute's early films and a few of his plays...but it's a strange fascination he has.I'd give this film a 2 out of 10 solely based on Ellen Burstyn's performance. By the time she finally makes her appearance (bravely soldiering through her scenes with her wig line clearly visible on her forehead) it seems like all hope may be lost. She deserves an Oscar right here and now for saying her lines with a straight face and when she appears wearing a white mumu and blue, white, and gold face paint booming about The Wicker Man you know that working with Scorcese and Friedkin really prepped her for this role dang well.This movie is so wrong-headed and cuckoo that is has to be seen to be believed.Highlights include: Nicholas Cage running away from a swarm of bees and then falling down a hill.Nicholas Cage stealing a bicycle and looking like Ms. Gulch from The Wizard of Oz riding around on it.Nicholas Cage running around the island kicking down doors looking for the missing girl.Leelee Sobieski PLUMMETING from a once-promising acting career in a "brawl" with Cage.Ellen Burstyn dancing around in a said while mumu.Nicholas Cage screaming "Who burned it? Who burned it? Who burned it?Who burned it?Who burned it?Who burned it?" for no reason.Nicholas Cage in a bear costume (I'm not kidding) running through the woods, taking off the costume (but leaving the bear feet on) and then doing some karate moves to some villains.And you haven't lived until you have seen the final 15 minutes of the movie and its dreadful epilogue that looked like it was shot yesterday in your cousin's basement.Needless to say, if you can make it through this film without laughing out loud then you deserve a medal. There was actually a point in the movie where I stopped snickering to wonder if maybe this wasn't an elaborate send-up of "hysteria" films...only to be reminded when Cage would scream/shout/whisper his dialogue that he really was taking himself quite seriously.I think this one is destined to be a cult film all over again...just because it's so dreadful.

A bad movie is a bad movie but a bad remake is something else entirely. This film doesn't just do a bad job of retelling the original story it takes everything that was good about it and replaces it with a witless and disjointed story.Nicolas Cage is well cast as a man addicted to some kind of over the counter drugs. I was sick to death of his muttering and dopey face within about five minutes, you might find his routine wearing thin a little faster or slower depending on your tolerance. I think he might have done a little too much preparation for his role. Watching Nicolas Cage mumble his way through the script is quite painful at times, like seeing an elderly dog trying to chase a postman on arthritic legs and not understanding why he can't quite do it anymore.The original story was quite chilling but here it's all kind of a joke. There's something really repulsive about a director remaking a film when they clearly haven't taken the time to understand the original. The plot is weaker than you would believe without seeing it and the whole war of the sexes thing is just not interesting. The director of this film should be forcibly prevented from remaking any more films, this film is a big fat insult to a classic movie and a sign of how cynical and artless Hollywood has become. Sad times.

This film was terrible. OK, my favourite film is 'The Wicker Man' (1973), so I was always bound to be a little biased. The plot rambles along, throwing out enough of the key elements of the original to make the term 'remake' highly dubious. (He's not a virgin, but IS allergic to bees. WOW!) So many things happen that make no sense and are unexplained, which I'm afraid Mr LaBute does not a horror movie make. (How are two people we clearly saw blown up in a car at the start alive and well at the end of the film?) Cage looks haggard and bewildered throughout, and his character is prone to calling out "Rowan!?" at the slightest noise. The 'nods' to the original are irritating as they come off as tacky rather than as intelligent homage. For example, certain incidents mirror the original (The girl falling out of a cupboard pretending to be dead when Woodward/Cage is searching the island) and several lines of dialogue are plucked straight from Anthony Schaffers original screenplay and shoehorned in.I'm sure others will provide a better and more detailed analysis than this, I really can't be bothered to write any more about this film. It lacks any kind of substance. Throw it on the scrap heap with all the other remakes that have sullied the good names of the films they were 'based' on (in this case very loosely).

Everyone else who has commented negatively about this film have done excellent analysis as to why this film is so bloody awful. I wasn't going to comment, but the film just bugs me so much, and the writer/director in particular. So I must toss in my hat to join the naysayers.I saw the original "Wicker Man" and really loved the cornucopia of music, sensuality, paganism in a modern world, and the clash of theological beliefs. This said, I am not part of the crowd that thinks remakes of great movies shouldn't be done. For example, I liked the original 1950's "Invasion of the Body Snatchers", but equally enjoyed the 1978 remake. Both films can stand on their own. Another example is "The Thing". The original, as campy as it looks compared to today's standards, has a lot to be proud of in the 1982 remake with Kurt Russell (my all time favorite horror movie). So that small minority of people who like "The Wicker Man" re-make can not accuse me of dissing this piece of crap just because it's a re-make.This film solidified for me Neil LaBute's sexism and misogynistic tendencies. It also made me wonder how executives, wanting to make a serious thriller, would green light a product that is so anti-female. There are too many scenes of Cage hitting women just because he's frustrated with them thwarting his investigation of a missing girl. would he react like this off the island in other cases where suspects aren't forthcoming? The original created a society in which men and women are equal participants in a Goddess based religion. The threat to the main character came from everyone, male and female. There was no sexual hierarchy.The metaphor of bees, drones etc was a bit heavy handed and convenient ("The drone must die!"), especially when Cage's character has bee allergies. I kept wondering why the men on the island didn't fight back and use mere physicality to stop these women from treating them like grunts. These were not women with special supernatural powers, and half of them seemed to be pregnant, the other half old and fat, and the rest girls and thin blonde waifs, so if the men really wanted to escape they could do what most men do when they hate women. Physically dominate them. There didn't seem to be any guns or weapons beyond cutting tools to hold them if they were unhappy. But if they were content being drones, why make them unable to speak? They could be used as a threat to Cage because they will defend the community. They are drones because Neil LaBute seems to believe that a society ran by women would leave men castrated. (That movie was made already. "The Stepford Wives" anyone?) Classic symptoms from men who are afraid of what may happen if women got their sh*t together and were truly equal citizens.The problem with the man-hating female society is that it makes uninteresting movie viewing and creates unintentional humor when Cage starts knocking women out. I belief LaBute should've left the society an egalitarian one, kept the sexuality and uninhibited lasciviousness, and pushed buttons of discomfort in regards to the children on that island. No one likes pedophiles or children to be sexually exploited. So how would a cop react if he saw lewd acts performed by adults with children around? There would be a logical mental leap that these children are abused, thus, an urgency created to save the missing child and get help for all the children. LaBute has said he created the fiancé and daughter story thread to give Cage's character an incentive to search. I don't think you need that. Any child abused will make an adult react to save them. The irony of course would be that the child Cage "saves" ultimately brings him death.The dialogue was contrived and campy. The whole third act was hilarious. The audience I saw it with guffawed (and later booed at the end). I just thought the movie started off wrong when the letter arrived written in the fancy handwriting and all the flashbacks cutting into to show how wounded Cage is. We don't need that. Just show him arriving on the island for an investigation of a missing child. Most of us in America have seen "Law & Order" and other cop procedurals. We come into the movie as if we are Cage's partner solving a mystery.So much potential...wasted. Neil LaBute, stick to talking head pictures for people who enjoy your male angst-ridden plays and flicks of that sort. Stay with your own company of men. Leave the thrillers for people who understand thrillers. Here is your jar of honey. I'll watch that.

People who write this is the worst movie they have 'ever' seen, clearly haven't watched many movies in their lifetime! Come on people... I hadn't seen/heard of the original when I watched it. Was it Academy acting or writing? No but I enjoyed the film.
I did watch the original film soon after, but it wasn't my cup of tea.

Anyone not aware of the 1973 original British Lion movie ' The Wicker Man' would,no doubt, have left the cinema with the impression 'Poor' and 'Peurile'.As a devotee of the original I left with the impression Purely Poor.From the grim reality of haggle toothed inbreds drawing the force of law and order into a web of paganistic barbaric ritual on a remote Scottish island, named Summerisle(the original) to a near Amazon-ic colony off the Maine coast of the US, named Summersisle, the remake hardly hits the spot.This is, quite sadly, a case of what 'could' have been a classic remake of a classic being tampered with to cater for a simple minded public. NOTHING MORE AND NOTHING LESS. Gentlemen (or given the reworked context of the film) Ladies involved ... hang your heads in shame.