The International (2009)We can't expect every Tom Tykwer film to be as inventive or intense as Run Lola Run or The Princess and the Warrior, and The International feels almost like a breather, an intentional turn at a conventional film. It's an espionage and high stakes international drama with guns and deceit and a pair of very distinctly good good guys played by Clive Owen (brilliantly) and Naomi Watts (unconvincingly...probably just miscast). And overall it's completely enjoyable and slick, well paced, and beautifully filmed, of course.The plot is one of those sprawling, behind-the-scenes conspiracy, third world, big money scenarios that must have shades of truth, or lots of truth, but gets simplified into a handful of bad guys and a parade of exotic locales (including the inevitable Third World warlord who is an intelligent and willing pawn in the whole game). What I mean is, the plot almost doesn't matter in the details, though it's interesting, and makes you think and worry a little about the world we live in. It's more how the heroes unfold the facts of the plot, against the odds, the clock ticking, that make the movie good. If you liked the Bourne movies (which are as a whole probably faster and more edgy) or Syriana (which is actually kind of similar in feel overall, Clooney substituted for Owen), this will really suit you.And there is a Tykwer twist now and then, a camera with unusual fluidity, or a scene that gets replayed and rethought. Of course, the hugely complicated shootout in the Guggenheim is a masterpiece of excessive and brilliant kinetic filming. For an amazing short video on the building of the sets for this shoot (yes, it wasn't at the real Gug), go to www.firstshowing.net and type guggenheim tykwer.In all? The best of it is worth the worst of it. A tightly made and not overly preposterous dip into a well stocked pond.

I was with them until they started a full on shoot out inside the Guggenheim. One shot fired in any building in Manhattan and the place is full of NYPD Blue within 3 minutes. Guys walking around a major tourist attraction spraying Uzi fire without 100 cops storming the place is insane. It's called suspension of disbelief, not suspension of sanity.Clive Owen was entertaining and I liked that the Chief from Rescue me was one of NYPD's finest.Regardless of your opinion about banks and multinational corporations, its a fun watch.

In recent times, the major news in the world has consisted of war and banking scandals. While "The International" is mostly an action flick, it does focus on these topics. Like "Syriana" and "Michael Clayton", the movie portrays a world of vile people, although this one has characters whom it's easier to define as protagonists.The movie's plot is that two agents (Clive Owen and Naomi Watts) investigate a major bank's role in arms trading. In a quest that takes them to places as far apart as New York and Luxembourg* and even Turkey, these two do everything to look into the bizarre conspiracy...not without interference. But the overall point is that pretty much everyone in these sorts of affairs is, for lack of a better word, bad. And it's a true representation of what we've seen in the world during the past few years.All in all, this movie was no worse than I expected, no better than I expected. Worth seeing maybe once. Directed by Tom Tykwer ("Run Lola Run") and also starring Armin Mueller-Stahl.*We don't often see Luxembourg in movies. Or hear about it at all.

No spoilers.I pretty much had zero expectations for this film. I'd seen an ad or two and it looked conventional at best, clumsy at worst. The previews certainly don't do it justice. It starts smart and mean and doesn't let up. Not everyone will enjoy the unrelenting mood, but I found the picture intense and the rest of the audience in the theater seemed to agree. It helps that Clive Owen is believable as the protagonist and is highly watchable. A lesser actor in the role would have made the film much less effective. Armin Mueller-Stahl also adds credibility and depth. Other supporting actors were, for the most part, strong and gritty. There was probably pressure for a female lead, so in Noami Watts's defense, this is probably part of the reason why the character feels so irrelevant.I'm happy anytime that a slick international thriller has some brains and isn't completely predictable, so I found the picture highly entertaining, if imperfect. It it flawed? Most certainly. But if you walk into the theater without pretensions, you'll probably be as entertained as I was. And I do think a theater visit is warranted, for the photography mentioned by previous reviewers, if not for the Guggenheim scene alone. I think it's dangerous to trump up a scene too much, because it inevitably leads to disappointment. But having no idea about what was coming... suffice to say, I didn't find the directing anything other than thrilling.

"The International" is an appropriate title for this fast action film. It moves from Berlin, to Istambul, with stops in Milan, Luxemburg, Lyon, and Manhattan. It is the type of thriller with lots of twists and turns that makes the viewer dizzy, not knowing what is coming up next. The best thing though is that its hero, Louis Salinger, is the kind of man that appears to be real and mortal, not one of those stereotypical action men that seem to have an unseen shield around them to stop bullets from even scratching any part of his body.The story centers about crooked bankers that are in the business of becoming involved with the criminal element to act as the intermediaries in the illegal weapons trade being mass produced in China for the purpose of providing third world countries with arms and equipment, they do not need. As the countries take on more debt, they fall prey to the unscrupulous money men controlling the international bank that act as a go between.Tom Tykwer, the German director of hits like "Lola rennt", has a keen sense of style that he brings to any of his projects. "The International" is no exception. The film was written by Eric Singer, better known as the author of the screenplay of "Aeon Flux". There is plenty of action in this film to keep audiences at the edge of their seats. The best sequence being the one that involves an all out shoot out inside New York's Guggenheim Museum, which by the magic of the movies, did not take place there but in a German film studio.Clive Owen makes an excellent case of his Salinger, the agent at the center of the action. Mr. Owen keeps getting better all the time. Naomi Watts makes a valuable contribution to the film with her Eleanor Whitman, the Manhattan D.A. that is investigating the activities of a bank run by criminals. Armin Mueller-Stahl appears as one of the corrupt individuals. Ulrich Thomsen plays the head of the bank. The supporting cast does a wonderful job for Mr. Twyker.Frank Griebe, the cinematographer, a long time associate of the director captures all the action in breathtaking images. The talented Mr. Twyker also contributes to the music score.

The International sort of came through cinemas without a great deal of fuss, partly thanks to reviews that, while not bad, where more of a shrug than actual criticism. This sort of lukewarm reception contributed towards it being forgotten quite quickly and is also the reason it has lingered on my rental list for a while before eventually I decided to have a look. I'm reasonably glad I did because mostly the film is a perfectly decent thriller that can best be described as "solid" in that it delivers enough to be watchable without ever doing anything specifically well enough to be memorable or worth seeking out.The plot must have been part of getting it made because certainly the time is right to find an audience for a thriller where the villain is a bank seeking profit at all moral costs and without any thought about the suffering caused by their pursuit of wealth and power. Perhaps once there was a really smart script with this at its heart but it feels like it was changed along the way to rather lose this element. The bank is really a criminal enterprise and the fact the main characters are bankers is perhaps a secondary thing. This hit me towards the end where the banker aspect was rather jumbled and the film seemed to just end with some sort of conclusion but not one that really justified the whole narrative to that point. The good things are that the script appears to have been changed to be more a traditional thriller so that, while it is about a bank, we still have running, gun fights, car chases and other moments of danger. These are all perfectly fine and the give the film its energy but it does feel like they also robbed the central narrative of a bit of its edge and direction.The direction is solid though and the cast work well in the main. Owen has presence and commands during most of the film. When the material is not clear then he cannot always salvage it but he does a decent job. Watts is an interesting presence but yet has so little to do – in particular the action parts of the film see her totally sidelined and, where she starts the film as co-star, the second half didn't do much with her. Mueller-Stahl is always a solid performer and is so here, while the supporting cast are all decent enough in support. The script lacking that edge, relevance and direction perhaps affects everyone's performance though.Overall The International is a solid enough thriller but nothing special or worth making an effort to see. It has some good set pieces and the idea is sound but as it goes on it does seem to lose its way and settles on a conclusion for the sake of a conclusion rather than something strong and effective. Solid, but nothing more than that.

No complaints at all about this gripping movie. The plot is original compared to the usual cops versus bad guys trash that often gets pumped out. The story centers around an international bank that makes its profits by supplying weapons to combatants in the various conflicts that cover the planet. Clive Owen is an Interpol guy trying to bring the bank down. The script is excellent, the acting is very good and the photography is above par for this kind of film. Excellent direction. This movie doesn't try too hard, is free of the clichés that often serve instead of fresh ideas and has a great shoot-out where the surprises and action keep you on the edge of your seat without trying to overwhelm with gore and jerky camera work.Go see it, you'll enjoy it.

"The International" is yet another example of the typical, all-nonsense action thrillers that seems to fill up our theaters these days. Although this one did not perform so well because of it being released during the dawn of the recession, it is very much like the others. It's well-made on a technical standpoint and its action sequences are utterly commendable and electrifying. However, the story is not. Nevertheless, this is one of the few brainless, no-logic thrillers of the 21st century that I have enjoyed mostly because of some terrific performances and some really stunning shootouts.The plot is ridiculous, but suitable. Clive Owen plays quite well an Interpol agent who stumbles onto a trail leading to an international bank that is involved in the dealing of arms and explosives throughout the world and by himself tries to take the whole operation down, aided by a government official played by Naomi Watts. This is a harebrained and very problematic premise and the story does become a little jumbled and perhaps a bit confusing at times. This is not a picture where you can get up to get a snack, because you'll probably miss something. And you most certainly can't pick it up in the middle or you'll be lost.Unfortunately, that's a fault. It's one of the reasons why "The International" is only good and not great like the Jason Bourne movies. The movie just keeps throwing one outlandish idea after another and not only does it become disorientating, but actually, toward the end, a little boring.However, the film is saved by its performances and by its action sequences. Reportedly, the movie was due for an earlier release date, but was delayed so that more scenes could be filmed to transform it into more of an action movie and I am so thankful they did. Because the shootouts and chases are the best thing in the picture as the story and plot are harebrained and dull. So in the end, I am giving the movie a marginal recommendation. It is a decent enough spy-thriller, but not one I could watch every week.

Man, they weren't kidding with the title 'The International.' All the way through the picture we were shot all over the globe. Heck, even in the first 20 minutes, I think we're in ten different cities. Unfortunately, the pace of the movie didn't move as fast as the planes that carried everyone in what appeared to be minute-travel. Oh, and don't be fooled by the trailer: by no means is this an action movie. It's barely suspenseful. Sure, there was one very long shootout and Clive Owen runs a bit, but this has to be the slowest "international" spy movie I've seen. And as for Owen, apparently he's this movie's Bond – no one can ever kill him, despite the hundreds of opportunities, yet, he's all but Jack Ryan, an analyst. It seems that we have this huge bank kills anyone who gets close to the truth of their evil scheme, but they've apparently either underestimated this analyst or for plot's sake, let him live for 2+ years of investigating. That's a pretty big plot hole. I guess you'll have to accept that. That, and why Owen or Watts, two wonderful actors, signed up for this, other than to cash their checks at the same kind of bank they're battling in the film. I've worked in the financial industry for going on 14 years now and this movie's big-bad-bank set on world domination isn't really far from the truth. So, if anyone had any idea of trying to take down one of these, for moral reasons, or whatnot, good luck. You might as well try and overthrow the government or take on organized religion. It would be easier to build a dam with salt. Stick with 'Bourne' or even the safe-bet 'Bond' for more enjoyable globetrotting espionage thrillers.

The International provides a breath of fresh air to fans of thrillers. It is a thriller film that rarely comes out of a big studio these days. It is a film more in style of Hitchcock with the mystery being the film's guiding force rather than frenetically stitched together action scenes. The Bourne Trilogy touched base on this type of thing, but still resorted to a largely conventional plot. While being an enjoyable and smarter-than-usual series of action movies they were nowhere near as intricate than their source material, which really dove into some seriously dark territory plot-wise with things that big budget thriller films almost never dare to touch.This film does just that type of thing. It presents, as the villain, an institution that is pervasive in the world and most peoples lives. We deal with it almost everyday and we need to as it holds one of the things that we need everyday - money. From an observer viewpoint on this type of relationship it is easy to see which side has great power over the other and like all power, this one can also be abused. Perhaps this plot can turn people off since they refuse to believe that something that they trust with literally everything they've got, could be so untrustworthy. Or perhaps they've never seen or heard about such a thing before so therefore it can't be true. Either way, it is self-imposed mental limitation which will doom someone to eventually liking only one type of movie and/or story. Movies and stories, at their core, are presenting new ideas and patterns and The International doesn't do that with spectacular action scenes, but with it's fresh plot.Crooks usually rob banks, but who gets robbed if the bank is the crook? That is the film's central question and the answer provided is also a bit more complex than could be expected. The path the answer doesn't always move at a breakneck pace nor are many of the answers provided fully satisfactory.In addition to the winding plot the film features a spectacular shootout that results in a world class art museum getting trashed. It's a bit of the old action movie formula that almost never gets old, but overall the movie is an Anti-Formula to the every Hollywood Action Movie Formula. --- 9/10BsCDb Classification: 13+ --- violence