A young woman takes a job caring for a stroke victim in his creepy, dilapidated home in New Orleans. She begins to get suspicious that something more is at play. Stars Kate Hudson.I love the plot and also the location and it's quite creepy. It's not brilliantly put together somehow but overall it's a decent supernatural thriller (more than a horror) and worth a watch.

Good performances all round. Good locations. Quite a lot of restraint on the writer's/director's part, building the chills in a more classic 70's way than out-and-out ghosts and scares. In fact, a few more scares after the half-way mark would have been welcome; if the ghosts were used any less, they wouldn't be in the film! The reason I've only rated a 6/10, is because it's so predictable. If you've seen any thriller set in the Deep South, you've seen this one. The background story is textbook 'New Orleans' voodoo vengeance, the characters' motives are obvious from the second they appear on screen, and the solid but pedestrian cinematography means that the locations are massively underused. If you've got a decrepit colonial mansion with antique furniture, surrounded by swamps and trees draped in that Lianna/lichen stuff, you've got to be pretty boring NOT to make it all seem brooding & scary - which is unfortunately what they've done.Kate Hudson is really switched-on, and not your average dumb heroine. There's even one (small) moment where I think I saw a conscious attempt to subvert the conventions and have her do something quite intelligent while in a perilous situation. It's not a big thing, but I noticed. John Hurt is surprisingly effective, really 'working' his eyes and body, considering he's had a stroke (in the film). Gena Rowlands and Peter Saarsgard are fine, but their performances are hampered by the 'all too obvious' script and direction. Joy Bryant is gorgeous but her character is nothing more than a device to give Kate slightly more personality and a convenient person who can explain about hoodoo/voodoo.Before I shut up, it's important to say something about the ending (without giving anything away). I'm not talking about the 'third act' - that's a bit OTT, as often happens in horror/thrillers - I mean the final scene.. Although the film as a whole is predictable and doesn't quite live up to its potential, the final scenes wrap up the story nicely and will put a grin on your face.If you've not seen a lot of horror/thriller films, you'd probably give Skeleton Key a 7 or 8 out of 10 - it's coherent, not too long, and fairly enjoyable (like I say, Kate Hudson & Gena Rowlands are really good). But I have seen a lot to compare it to, so 6/10 it is. Which is still worth watching on a dull afternoon, or on a rental.

I thought this movie was great because of the twist at the end. I have seen this movie a few times and 2 out of 3 people miss the most creepy and disturbing part of the whole movie. The funny thing about this movie is that the sacrifices all started with the children of the wealthy banker. Papa Justify and Mama Cecile took over the children's bodies during the party and then the people at the party hung and burned the children thinking it was the servants. That in itself was disturbing. They then shot the wealthy banker and his wife and took over the house and lived there until they took over the new couples bodies in 1962.

The first thing you notice about "The Skeleton Key" is that it doesn't start like almost every horror movie these days. There's no shocking opening sequence and for the first 15 minutes or so nothing supernatural happens. The movie starts by introducing its characters and that's very refreshing. In fact, I had great expectations after that slow start. I mean when was the last time a horror movie (or psychological thriller, if you want) has really taken the time to build up a proper story? For the most part the movie manages to steer clear of typical horror clichés, but now and then the makers seemed to feel the urge to put in a totally predictable and unnecessary jump for the sake of not making the whole thing too boring. That's the one major problem of "The Skeleton Key".Although the basic of it is a compelling story the whole thing isn't set up well. The movie never really gets boring, but it doesn't keep you on the edge of your seat, either. There are some riddles to be solved there, but it's never mysterious or spooky enough to make you forget everything else around you (which a really good movie is able to do). Apart from the aforementioned silly shock effects, producers would sometimes add some spooky elements just to make it more interesting, but in retrospective many of them didn't really make much sense. Also, for all the time the movie took to get started I didn't really feel a connection with the characters. Kate Hudson has guilty pleasures because she wasn't there when her father died, but that's about all we get to know about her (and looking at the movie's ending it would have been a good thing if we'd known her better, so we could feel for her more). The lack of character development and the use of stylish, soon-to-look-silly-effects (the flashback scenes) prevent the movie from creating a really moody and spooky atmosphere. The story takes place in a creepy house with swamps nearby. How could they not make it spooky? On the other hand, you get top notch performances of all the main actors, especially Mrs. Rowlands and you can tell that the writer at least tried to come up with something new. While "The Skeleton Key" doesn't achieve the greatness of classic "psychological thrillers" such as "The Shining", "The Wicker Man" or "Don't Look Now", it's still compelling enough to be miles above missed attempts at the same genre, like "Godsend" or "Hide & Seek". And the ending - although not really a jaw-dropping twist in the tradition of "The Sixth Sense" or "The Usual Suspects" - makes up for a lot of flaws. So wait until the credits roll, before you dismiss the movie as being to predictable.

Part of the success of this type of movie is setting up and making sure its resolution lives up to its expectations. I must say that in this film everything seems to work, and yet... I'm not sure what spooked more: its ending or the nature of its ending.The film deals with the adventures of a young care worker in the middle of Louisiana. The atmospheric surroundings, the haunting score, beautiful, spooky photography, and some very good acting by Rowlands and Kate Hudson raise the bar for upcoming "horror films". We're glued to the screen for nearly two hours, as things become more mysterious and intriguing. A few times we're treated to a jolt and a revelation, but what closes the film is bound to ruffle a few feathers.Above all, this is a very good movie, with a script that doesn't cheat anyone and doesn't rely on silly gimmicks. Those factors should portend good tidings for its success in its original release, but it will probably become a classic of its kind. The heroine in distress manages to be smarter than the usual stereotype. She wants to explore the surroundings and solve the problem. The problem is she has no idea how bad the situation might be.Gena Rowlands provides her character with nuances rarely seen in this type of film. She is a strange character and hooks up the audience from the very beginning. There is no really an archetype for what Rowlands brings to life. A few might find the previous statement questionable, but if you look closely to the development of her character, it is almost an original.Kate Hudson makes a very strong impression in this film. She goes beyond the pretty actress to an accomplished performer who matches up to Rowland's intensity. She navigates the film with an ease rarely seen in today's roster of plastic pre-packaged pseudo celebrities. It is refreshing to see an actress make you care for the character that has so often been portrayed as an offensive stereotype. There no gratitude's screaming scenes here. The film reminds me of "The Others", a movie with substance and intelligence.This is a film that I will highly recommend to my friends, particularly because I want to hear what they have to say about that ending.

I went today to see this film without any expectations and I liked it. All I can say is that it's worth the time spent to watch it. Of course, everything in this movie is average, but not bad. The claustrophobic atmosphere of the house and people hiding the truth until the end are similar elements to the ones in Amenábar's The Others. And the ending was really unexpected for me.There's not much more for me to say about this movie, except remarking that it's worth to spend the evening on it.P.D.: After watching this movie I won't forget to pour some brick dust out of my room to keep the evil out :-) Just joking.

The ending to this movie which I won't spoil is truly one of the best I've encountered in a horror movie. Throughout the runtime I was trying to figure out what the inevitable twist will be but there is no way I could've predicted the wild turn of events that unfolds. The conclusion is what made me raise my rating from a 7 to and 8. Ending notwithstanding it is still a very decent and atmospheric horror movie. I love movies set in New Orleans/Louisiana and am always on the lookout for more and this was a major reason why I watched this. I love it when a Louisiana movie embraces the swampy setting so that you can feel the humidity radiating from the screen. Skeleton Key has a lot of great scenes that establish the setting and showcase the culture and myths of the area. Some say the movie is a bit tame but that's not a problem for me. There are some horror movies that are let down by a PG-13 rating but this is not really a movie that needed an R rating as I can't think of many things that it would have changed apart from adding some unnecessary gore. Additionally, the performances are good but the direction could've maybe been improved to give it more of a creepy vibe as there weren't many actual scenes that had me scared. All in all it doesn't matter too much as Skeleton Key is a very decent and rather underrated horror movie that relies on atmosphere and setting rather than cheap thrills and gore.

Kate Hudson stars as Caroline, an in-home hospice nurse for invalid Ben played by John Hurt and his ailing wife Violet played by Gena Rowlands. The swampy scenery surrounding the old plantation home lends the movie much of its atmosphere but the movie moves along at a really slow pace until the third act.The acting is pretty stellar from Hurt and Rowlands, Ben the silent stroke victim who knows what is going on but lost the ability to say anything or walk and Violet the suspiciously creepy lady who may or may not be the culprit behind the whole Hoodoo highjinks. However, Hudson's Caroline seems too bland and unassuming for our lead. Most of the runtime sees her using the titular skeleton key to snoop about when things start getting spooky, caring for Ben, out on the town, or lounging about in her underwear. But once the twist begins to unfold (as the movie is pretty much almost over), things finally kick in gear towards an ending that will either surprise you or make you feel like you just got kicked in the gut.A not too bad but also not too good supernatural thriller that will leave you bored for most of the runtime until the ending injects somewhat of life into the movie. If you're a fan of creepy houses, swampy Louisiana scenery, supernatural practices, twists, or Kate Hudson's bottom half, give this a go. Otherwise it's skippable.

One of the better horror movies I know. Also certainly one of the best Hudson's movies.

I'm sorry this movie just doesn't cut the mustard, or in this case mustard seed soak with chicken feet.This movie is the latest in psychological dramas that attempt to lead the watcher down one path and blow their mind away with an awesome ending. Of course, with most of these movies it is relying more on the ending and less on the actual flow, plot, and acting of the movie.Acting:The only one who is good in this movie is John Hurt (the older Ben) Gena Rowlands was just not as good as her Notebook performance. Kate Hudson, well her character just had too many holes...for this kind of movie.This kind of movie relies entirely on building a relationship b/w the characters and the audience. So, for those who say a movie is a movie, just enjoy it...well that is what you have to look for. Like with the 6th sense characters, or Nicole Kidman in The Others.Flow and PLot.This movie is also very slow...mind you not as bad as The Village. Some of these thrillers get move so slowly (i.e. themes, imagery, music scores) i find peoples attention begin to wander. Story is strong with a good historical foundation. A few erie scenes, but not enough. I thought the movie needed more development with the potential ghosts rather than the HooDoo crap...Perhaps it was difficult to fit into the story.You know immediately that the deveraux wife is possessed (at least i did), but maybe with the children the bought from in the 60s, or the are the children themselves. But as soon as the Estate lawyer reappeared, i figured he was possessed. I kind of felt like a learned the secret to soon, and therefore the ending didn't really blow me away.All in all, the movie is OK for a rental or cheap theater, but with so many of these kind of movies recently is was blasé. Its like watching a basketball player continually doing dunks from the free-throw line. We've seen it in the early 80s, we saw Jordan redefine it in the later 80s, we've seen it copied in the 90s...now its time to change it up. This movie just did not do that.