Thirty years after a man-made apocalypse, Eli (Denzel Washington) hikes westward on a quest across the vast American interior--a dark and dusty scape. He encounters a number of people who survive at the expense of others. In a small town, he is captured by a local despot named Carnegie (Gary Oldman) who makes him an offer. Being a loner, Eli prefers to go his own way, but he may not have a choice."The Book of Eli" is a stylish film that is reminiscent of "I Am Legend" and other post-apocalyptic stories, though it carves out a niche for itself due to its strong characters and its central theme.The film presents some religious sub-themes, which might find differing interpretations by different viewers. I found the ending a little disappointing, but I think others may enjoy the twists in the final scenes. Mila Kunis plays a strong character--a young woman whose life undergoes a transition under the influence of Eli.

With the recent revival of the post-apocalyptic genre in Hollywood, it would be easy to overlook this film, and that would be a mistake. Thirty years from now the world is a barren, desolate wasteland filled with the charred remains of a civilization that destroyed itself through war. In this bleak future a lone man wanders west (Denzel Washington), guided by nothing more than faith, to deliver the last remaining copy of a book that changed the world, and will do so again. While Washington seeks to deliver the book to those who would do good with it, a local warlord (Gary Oldman), an erudite student of Mussolini, wants to possess the book so he can use the words to sway the masses and become a powerful dictator. The characters are very well acted, the action is fluid and well choreographed, and the setting seeps into your skin, immersing the viewer in a world devoid of faith but in desperate need of salvation. The final plot twist is creative, unexpected, and poetically just. The Book of Eli should shoot to the top of your Netflix queue.

Upon first viewing the trailer I was immediately giddy to see a new post-apocalyptic film in the vein of The Road Warrior. Being a fan of the genre, one must get used to the repetitive "lone wanderer" theme so prominently used. I figured this film would go through the same formula, but prepared to enjoy myself.Yes it did use the lone wanderer as a driving plot device, and yes it did bring the arbitrary twist. Yes all the survivors are short on t-shirts, but live in a wealth of leather and goggles. Yes everything in this film looks like and feels like a typical post-apocalyptia. But the substance of the story is far more powerful then I could ever have expected.Without giving away too much, yes the film is essentially a Christian metaphor. Eli seems to be protected by some mysterious force, guided by "God" to head west. But it's what the meaning behind this admittedly bizarre plot that makes this film so great. It truly is a film about faith and believing in one's self. Using the dreary post-apocalyptic backdrop, the film is able to contrast this powerful message with the harsh landscape. Even amidst such despair, one can rise and accomplish anything. In a world slowly becoming apocalyptic itself, this message is much welcomed.The other aspects lending to the power of The Book of Eli are its technical aspects. The cinematography is simply beautiful. Moody slo-mo shots abound with wonderfully toned colors. Everything looks dark and dead, the sun beating down endlessly on the dusty dunes. The soundtrack adds immensely to this feeling, using soft ambient chords and blasting action-scene drums when necessary. Overall The Book of Eli is an excellent film itself and an excellent spin on the post-apocalyptic genre. Oh yeah, and Denzel Washington actually manages to pull off the part of a wizened, old bad ass.

The Book of Eli has the potential to be a great film or complete rubbish depending on your expectations of what is to come. If you are looking for a film with some deeper meaning then I would not recommend it. However, if you are looking for a film with beautiful cinematography, solid acting and a little bit of fun action then you will be pleased.The key in watching the film is to not buy into the plot too much, which is where the viewer is going to be disappointed. The ending is a little far fetched and I couldn't help but roll my eyes. Although I honestly don't see a particularly good ending for the basic premise of the film.If you are able to put the silliness with the story behind you, the film is wonderfully done. There is great camera work with interesting angles and framing; the set showcases the contrast between the stark light of the sun and the shadows where humankind is hiding; and the acting makes you want to buy into the characters and their conflicts.I would recommend seeing the film, just don't get too involved with the story. Instead concentrate on the acting and the scene.

Hughes bro's are not trying to alter people's views on religion or any thing else.
They simply made a great watchable apocalyptic movie with marvelous actors and credible story. Relax and give it the credit it deserves.

Few things are hotter this winter than Mila Kunis walking around a post-apocalyptic town in a pair of Aviators. That and a quiet Denzel Washington wielding a sword sets up The Book of Eli, yet another post-apocalyptic thriller set in the future (or lack thereof). The post-apocalypse film may be getting old after films like Children of Men, The Road, I Am Legend, etc., but The Book of Eli manages to keep itself away from the cliché apocalypse film.Denzel portrays the title character of Eli, a mysterious man who walks around around a destroyed world carrying a book he believes can save humanity. He wanders into a makeshift town where a sadistic villain (Gary Oldman) desperately wants the book. Enter some hacked limbs, explosions, and cannibals, and you got yourself an interesting film.This is a different role for Denzel. Usually, he's just the calm talker who tries to make sure the bad guys don't do anything crazy (think Inside Man and last summer's remake of The Taking of Pelham 123). However, not only does Denzel do a lot of talking, but he's cutting off people's arms and shooting up the place like he's Jason Statham. One memorable scene involves Eli killing Oldman's men-who are armed with sniper rifles AB machine guns-with a simple handgun.It's also very refreshing to see Gary Oldman return to the role of a villain. Younger audiences now see Oldman as a good guy after portraying famous literary protagonists such as Sirius Black in the Harry Potter films and Jim Gordon in the recent Batman series. While there's nothing at all wrong with that, I was starting to miss Oldman's villain days, including classic turns as a drug addicted cop in Leon The Professional and a Russian terrorist in Air Force One. Oldman shows his versatility in Eli, where he makes his character a complete psycho.When I first saw that Kunis was cast in this film, I was a little worried. Sure, everybody loves Mila, but could the star of comedies like That 70's Show and Forgetting Sarah Marshall make the transition in a serious film? Kunis plays her role well, but she should stick with the comedies until she's given a character with more to do.The Book of Eli isn't perfect with its choppy action sequences or pacing issues, but its a fun film nonetheless. It's films like these that keep the post-apocalyptic genre alive and well.

This is by no way a bad movie, yes the plot is pretty simple and lacking depth. Notice all the 1 star rating people are just hating because it has something to do with the Bible lol. The acting is very well done. The visuals are also very nice. It's funny the world we live in where almost 90 percent of the one 1 star ratings are just because they can't get over the fact this movie has something to do with God and a Bible. This movie by no way forces any believes on the viewer.

The first thing that strikes you about this film is how horrid and beautiful it looks all at the same time. We are in a post-apocalyptic world of washed out colours, destroyed structures and dying people scrabbling to make sure they are not the next to die; and it is a world that is really well designed and really well filmed by Don Burgess. Everything looks convincing and it doesn't feel like they just shot it out in a desert location, it genuinely feels like a scorched earth. The only slight irritant about the look of the film is that it does feel very much like a great copy of the world of Fallout 3 as created by Bethseda – right down to the design of the "bandits" with their goggles and ragged clothing; this bugged me and those very familiar with this world via gaming may also feel the film is "borrowing" rather than creating.I talk about the look and style of the film first because to me it is really one of the main reasons to watch this film and indeed for the first 20 minutes or so, it is all we are drifting on – this sense of the cool and the barren without much in the way of who's or why's. Unfortunately when the plot does start to come in, it does so with a terribly corny story and message that wouldn't be out of place in one of those overly-earnest low-budget films made by Christian companies. Indeed this is what this film is – an overly earnest religious film, it just happens to have cost millions and have massive Hollywood stars involved in it. Now, this is the point where you assume that I dislike the film because it is to do with God and the bible, but this wasn't it all at – it didn't help for sure, but this isn't the reason.The main problem I have is that the film doesn't actually seem interested in making this message work and the plot just seems like a necessary evil to get the character walking in slow-mo around this cool landscape. There isn't much development beyond the basic dialogue about the power of this book and it is nothing but endless corn in the main; I may have respected it more if it had done something with the content, but it doesn't, indeed it seems almost embarrassed by it. The Hughes Brothers for sure aren't particularly interested in that and thus the performances and shots are all about the style, the atmosphere and the look of the film. Accordingly the cast do the same – which is fine because I wonder why they were all queuing up to be in this story. Washington is a great lead because he is all style and presence and he fits the landscape well. Kunis' character makes less sense as she goes on but she is stunning to look at and again fits the style aspect of the film. Oldman's villain is poor and as a result he is only OK.What all this leaves then is a film that should be watched by fans of Fallout 3 and New Vegas, simply because it is a great film recreation of those worlds, from the colour of the sky down to the costumes it feels and looks like the games. Outside of this though, the casual viewer is left with very little of interest going on behind the style; the story is cloyingly religious and lacking any insight or intelligence – in terms of writing it feels like having two guys at your door trying to sell Jesus to you with platitudes and clichés. It all looks fantastic but unfortunately the script simply doesn't deserve the visuals.

I liked it. I found it highly enjoyable. There are some serious plot holes, sure. I'm sincerely thankful to reviewers who have pointed them out. But if you're okay with ignoring them, the movie is terrific.WATCH IT FOR:
An emotionally rewarding storyGreat acting from Denzel, Gary Oldman & Mila Kunis.Brilliant cinematographyExceptional fight scenesMila Kunis - Breathtaking.

I saw this when it came out in the cinema and quite liked it. Now it has come round on TV I thought it might be worth a second viewing. This film is about the quest of one man to get a book to the place it's supposed to be, to use his words. Now, I'm not a religious man but I can see the value this book might have in a world torn apart by war. It is a post-apocalyptic world, thirty years after it was destroyed. Those that were not killed scratch a living out of what's left, and many have turned to cannibalism. Many were blinded by the flashes in the sky but survived. As stated in the film, after the war people destroyed the bible blaming it for what happened, but Eli has the last remaining copy. Now you know the set-up, here's a brief summary before I give you my thoughts (summary haters please don't touch Eli not if you want to keep your hands that is and wait here while I write the next paragraph).Always moving west, Eli is a loner on the road. Like everyone out there he knows it's a very dangerous place. He kills animals for food and gets clean water where he can. When set upon by hijackers but Eli is a ferocious fighter and thus far has come out on top. One day he wanders into a small town run by Carnegie, a determined man who has been sending out men in search of a particular book, the very one Eli has in his possession. Carnegie has a mother and daughter, Claudia and Solara in his entourage, Claudia was blind from birth, but Solara is sighted. In trying to persuade Eli to stay, as he can see the value of a man who can fight like him, he sends Solara to his room and she discovers the book. Carnegie finds out about the book and sends his henchman, Redridge to get it but Eli has already gone. Eli starts heading west again only to find Solara following him. Redridge wants Solara and makes a deal with Carnegie to get the book in exchange for her. And now the chase is on, will Eli and Solara escape or will they be caught? I think that's enough for now This film was shot in a similar way to 300 (2006) with a kind of washed out comic book feel to it and, for me, it looked a bit too artificial in places. A lot of the landscapes were CGI which didn't come over too well on TV. Great performances from all of the leading cast, Denzel Washington as Eli, Gary Oldman as Carnegie, Mila Kunis as Solara, Ray Stevenson as Redridge and Jennifer Beals as Claudia. Honourable mentions also go to Frances de la Tour and Michael Gambon as Martha and George, a mad old couple who Eli and Solara find on their travels.Although it's a fairly straightforward story I found it a very entertaining and compelling film to watch, the 107 minutes went by pretty quickly, which is always a good sign. It did get a bit bogged down in the middle, but redeemed itself with a totally unexpected twist at the end. Don't worry; I'm not going give that away here. Also a haunting soundtrack backs up the visuals to great effect. Over all, although it's not been well received everywhere and although not perfect, it's a good effort Recommended.My score: 7.3/10

The Book of Eli was an interesting idea of a movie, one man setting off to the west trying to find the best place for this one of a kind book he walks around with. Now, that is pretty much the whole plot of the movie. 2 hours of watching this man walk west, obviously encountering a few obstacles on the way. This eventually leads to him being chased by someone that really wants the book. Now, not to be hasty...but there is no real intriguing plot to the movie. I do believe that Gary Oldman did a great job in this film and as did Denzel, though at some parts the acting seemed less believable. This movie does have some interesting action scenes where Denzel goes on a killing frenzy, which was quite entertaining. If you want to see this movie, realize you are not going to be drawn in by the plot. It is a very slow-paced start that gradually builds up, and then, in my opinion, drops at the very end. I don't mean the end in general, I mean the last 10-20 seconds of the film. It really was quite a dumb ending that just should have been taken out.Final Rating: 6.5/10

I am always hesitant when movies come out in January or February. The Oscar buzz is about last year's performances and the summer blockbusters are still five months away. So, when movies come out this time of the year there is a distinct possibility that the movie is going to have a weak story line and sub par acting. This is not the case with "The Book of Eli." For a January movie — it exceeded my expectations.I have respect for both Denzel Washington and Gary Oldman and their choice of past roles. Gary's role in this film was that of the old bad guy running a small western front town 30 years after a nuclear war (I am assuming it was nuclear war, they only vaguely described what happened). He sends his traveling bandits out of town to find the last Bible on earth. He does this because with the last Bible on earth he can reestablish civilization under his reign. It does seem far-fetched but then again it is a January movie so I will cut it some slack. Gary did a great job, reminded me a little of his bad guy character in "The Professional," but he wasn't over the top with his acting, only when he needed to be.On to Denzel, who did another great job. He reminded me of Clint Eastwood in his western movies where he didn't say much because he didn't have to. Denzel's actions spoke for him. That leads us into the action sequences. The Hughes Brothers delivered the action with a wallop and without a lot of blood and guts. The first fight scene looked like five silhouettes fighting a shadow of a man. There's also a shoot out scene where they used some pretty innovative camera shots to put the viewer into the action. The action was quick and to the point and just as important, it was memorable.We covered the actors and the action, so what about the story? The story could have taken place in the Old West just as it could have taken place in an apocalyptic future. It was simple and didn't have many confusing elements to it. The premise was to get that Bible. Denzel's job was to head west to deliver the last copy of the Bible to someone. He does everything in his power to protect the book. Since the Bible is the main focus of the hunt there are some religious overtones but nothing too heavy. There is also a good use of humor, something totally unexpected considering the drabness of the film.The camera helped in telling much of the story. Through much of the movie the camera and landscape was all that was needed to carry key elements in the story. In one scene Mila Kunis' character was attacked and instead of talking about it afterward, the camera took time to focus on her reaction to the situation. There are also several shots of Denzel walking in the desolation showing the audience the ruined landscape. Dialogue couldn't have added much more.Should you see this movie? Yes. Even though it won't get Oscar nods or be the next big summer blockbuster, it will still keep most people entertained. The ending might make you want to see it a second time to see what you missed the first time. All I am saying is keep your eyes open.

I've always liked The Hughes Brothers. From Menace II Society to Dead Presidents to American Pimp to From Hell, they are amazing filmmakers. That said, The Book Of Eli separates itself from their other films. This is not to say this is a good thing. See, The Book Of Eli lacks what The Hughes Brothers usually have. Examples of what those are-characters, a story, a plot, good acting, good direction, entertainment value, ETC. Look, I could go on and on of how bad of a film The Book Of Eli is. From its boring, stupid, absurd set up to its final, terrible, rip off final twist, The Hughes Brothers, as much as their other films have amazed me, have made an undeniably bad film. Denzel Washington is supposed to be a bad ass at the end of the world, and Gary Oldman is supposed to be the evil gang member who wants Washington's magical book. Mila Kunis is the daughter of Oldman who follows Washington. However, the actors are so painfully dull that none of them can pull of their roles, and the roles, along with the movie becomes stupid and boring. As for the twist, even if the movie was amazing, the last 5 minute twist would have made me hate the movie anyway. Avoid this movie at all costs, and I mean all costs.

This 'movie' left me feeling slightly used - by Denzel Washington. It's a bit like battlefield earth, but with God instead of thetans, and Gary Oldman instead of John Travolta (the parallel is fairly loose really, but i think it stands). I'm really not happy being preached to by movies, especially those whose central character fails to live up to anything he tells other people (how Christian is it to cut another mans hand off?). If you're a Christian, don't go to see this movie - it's violent (this violence is seemingly OK, as long as it's a good guy killing people in the name of God, rather than the bad guys killing people - which I find to be a rather worrying message). If you're not a Christian, don't go and see this movie, unless you like being preached to. Go and watch The Road. It's much better.

I only write reviews for movies that I really hate or really love, and "The Book of Eli" definitely falls into the latter category. It's an intriguing tale about a man in post-apocalyptic America walking west to deliver an initially unnamed book. The fact that he's been doing so under the most bleak of circumstances for 30 years is a testament to his strong faith and determination to complete the task. The movie has a good amount of action...Eli can handle himself and takes down any of the deranged lunatics who try to get in his way in crowd pleasing fashion. The core of the movie occurs when he stops at a small town ruled by Gary Oldman's evil character and his merciless motorcycle riding thugs. The ensuing confrontation is yet another test of Eli's faith. The movie contains a surprise ending that will make you say, "WTF"??? and is absolutely impossible, but makes you think back over the entire film and want to watch it again. Denzel Washington, as Eli, is outstanding and he exhibits the amazing charisma he brings to all of his roles. The movie is well cast, and it was great seeing the fine Jennifer Beals ("Flashdance") on the big screen again. The Hughes Brothers are excellent directors, and I love the diversity of their body of work, from "Menace to Society" to "From Hell". This is a movie that I will be seeing again.

I thoroughly enjoyed this movie on many levels. Yes, the spurts of violence seem to clash with the overall message but even that aspect is covered by dialogue and a nicely crafted story. The parallels between Denzel's character and Jesus (again minus the violence) and Mila's character to Mary Magdalene are apparent but handled well in my opinion. A big point off for the premise that apparently led to the apocalyptic times depicted but that grim world does draw you in to the film completely. Taking entertainment to a thoughtful level is always good and this film succeeds at that remarkably well. It points out that it's critical to define what's really important in life. There are no small things, just things we take for granted. (Next time I'm in KFC, I'm going to take a massive handful of wet wipes!) The reverence and reference to the need for faith and what life would be like without it is strong. "Finish the race, fight the good fight and keep the faith."