The Dude, aka Jeff Lebowski, is mistaken for a shady, millionaire businessman with the same name, a gang of thugs, searching for money, smash his place up and steal his rug. The Dude is given the chance to seek out those men.What a hilarious movie this is, from start to finish it's sheer brilliance, it doesn't matter how many times I watch it, I never tire of it, talk about a film you can watch over and over.It's genuinely funny, and with plenty of mixed humour, some of it's smart, some of its slapstick, some of it's a little surreal, overall, it just works. I'm not sure the story is anything new or complex, but that idea of two people with the same unusual name being linked by a crime, it works.The scene with Larry and the car is probably my favourite from the whole movie, talk about hilarious, that poor car.Jeff Bridges has put in some marvellous performances over the years, for me though, this is the best, he just nails it, he's hilarious.John Goodman is great, he steals many of the scenes, Julianne Moore is terrific, not sure if I prefer the accent or hairstyle, she's so good.Perfect music throughout, seeing this you'll want to download The Gypsy Kings. You'll want to sip a White Russian at the same time.A Joy!!9/10.

My Rating : 9/10You either hate it or love it. I am in love with 'The Big Lebowski'! I love most of the Coen Brothers' work and this one is right up there with Fargo and No Country For Old Men. It's super funny and can be watched again and again. I think I watch it once a year and always have a great time.One that I highly recommend. Go watch it! And then watch it again and again.AN AWESOME CULT FILM.

More than 20 years it took me to have a look at this cult classic. Finally did it and I do undestand the fuss about it.Not a flick for everybody that I can tell because a lot of talking is done but it's the talking that starts to get funny after a while. In fact, a bunch of loser trying to solve a abduction and trying to hold the money for themselves goes terribly wrong.After a while you even want the talking to go on and on. And some art flick here and there it was indeed a hell of a ride, funny, stupid but genious in its kind.Gore 0/5
Nudity 1/5
Effects 3/5
Story 4/5
comedy 2/5.

It's actually kind of hard to describe this movie (and what's so great about it) to people who don't already know it and love it; as with many cult films, The Big Lebowski will either speak to you (in which case you will become a fervent follower of His Dudeness and abide by his code for the rest of your life) or, if it doesn't, the film will either leave you completely indifferent or you'll even downright hate it.I believe it's a very funny film and I'm sure it can be rightfully called a comedy, but don't expect punchlines, gags, jokes or slapstick - it's not that kind of comedy. If you want to enjoy this film, you have to meet Jeffery "The Dude" Lebowski on his terms, hang out with him and his bowling buddies and follow them at a their (perhaps somewhat leisurely) pace through this weird and unbelievable tale about nihilism, theft (of a car and, more importantly: a Creedence Clearwater Revival tape), kidnapping, abstract art, porn and - of course - bowling. The story is actually kind of simple. You see, some no-good German nihilists urinated on The Dude's rug - and this kind of aggression just won't stand against The Dude. With the help of his bowling buddies, he will do everything in his power to get someone to pay for his rug - or possibly get a new one (because that rug really tied the room together). So he embarks on this worthy quest during which he will encounter many wondrous things and fascinating people (even Jesus - who is NOT the messiah but a very naughty man).With Jeff Bridges in the leading role, the Coen brothers have found the perfect actor to incorporate one of the most iconic characters that has ever been created. But it's not just The Dude that makes this a winner; the whole film is such an inspired folly and simply inventive filmmaking at its finest (the hilarious dream sequence alone is worth the price of admission). The supporting cast is outstanding (J.Turturro, J.Goodman and S.Buscemi among many others), the song choices are perfect and the dialog is the funniest, most quotable in any comedy I've ever seen. This - for me - is without a doubt the film with the highest rewatchability factor of all time. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

The Big Lebowski is the type of movie that is so funny, and so clever, you want nothing more but to meet the Coen brothers, congratulate them personally for their unique talent, and get inside their heads and find out what makes these two geniuses "tick".  The main characters are Jeff Bridges (who plays such broad roles like The Muse, The Contender, and Sea Biscuit), John Goodman (who should have won an oscar for best supporting actor for his character, Walter Sobchak)Juliane Moore (Maude Lebowski)and Steve Buscemi (who is unique in every Coen Brother movie).The first time I saw this movie, I will admit that I enjoyed it, but did not fully appreciate its level of humor and raw talent.  I thought the middle section was a bit too depressing and long.  But trust me, this is a movie that gets more funny every time you see it, even if it's your thousandth time seeing it. Its level of comedy, action, brutality, and vulgarity become that much more evident and important.The characters are brilliantly written by the coen brothers, and, likewise, are brilliantly portrayed by the actors.  The Big Lebowski is like no other film.  It will make you laugh and it will make you cry.  There is no other film such as TBL that is sharp and witty all the way through. One of the Joel and Ethan Coen's best, and one of the movie industry's best comedic film of all time.  You want to go see this flick.

Those Coen brothers have an ear for language. You feel it in the sing-songy banalities of Fargo, and in the noiresque machine-gun dialogue of Miller's Crossing, but neither of these can prepare you for the feast for the ears that is The Big Lebowski.Channeling the opaque mysteries of Raymond Chandler, the Coens throw LA resident bum and Bowling aficionado Jeff Lebowski ("The Dude" to his friends) into a strange triple-crossing case of kidnapping, ransoms, nihilists and urinated-upon rugs. It is the equivalent of throwing unrelenting forces at an immovable object, the Dude's bemused stoicism at constant odds with the world around him. He'd much rather be bowling with crazed Vietnam Vet Walter (John Goodman) and pure silent soul Donnie (Steve Buscemi).As with so much of the Coens' output, style is more than half the point: not just visual, though ace DP Roger Deakins paints an alluring canvas, but tonal and auditory. This is an insanely funny head-trip of a movie, with wonderfully idiosyncratic characters, down to the smallest part. Who better than the Coens to reinvent the comedy of errors?This is without a doubt one of their very best, a personal favorite, an unmissable film and the kind of experience that will plant an indelible smile on your face. Do yourself and see this now, if you haven't already.

No movie has entertained me more in the last year than this film. It's delightfully written, directed with poise and acted with extravagance and excellence. I do admit that this is a film that I had to see six times to get. Every time I watch it I learn something new. The genius of the film lies within a game I think the Coen brothers play with their audiences. There are the touches of the masters in many of their films. In "The Hudsucker Proxy," it was Preston Sturges and Frank Capra. In "Raising Arizona," I felt a touch of Sam Fuller. In this film, I felt many touches of greatness, but more specifically I felt John Sayles or even John Cassevettes in spots. The camera was manipulated beautifully and I felt a tinge of their talents lurking in at many a turn. The performances are astounding, especially Goodman as the deranged bowler still living deep within the jungles of the Vietcong. Huddleston is also quite wonderful as the title character. Turturro gives a fine cameo as "Jesus," coupled with a rousing and humurous version of the Eagles, "Hotel California," done in Espanol. I hope this is a film that is looked at with more seriousness. It is, once you dig deep, a fine piece of filmmaking.

The Big Lebowski is a 1998 film directed by the Coen brothers and starring Jeff Bridges, Julianne Moore and John Goodman
The Coen brothers are two of the best
filmmakers of the decade and one of their most popular movie is The Big Lebowski, and it's easy to see why, the film is absolutely hilarious I especially love the constant beatings that the Dude's car takes, the acting is on point with Jeff Bridges and John Goodman obviously standing out and the mistery and thriller part of the movie is actually pretty interesting too in my opinion. However I don't think the movie is perfect, I don't really get or find funny the dream sequences and overall I don't feel the movie is very memourable and doesn't stand out much for me. But that's just, like, my opinion man. 7.6/10

The Coen brothers are up there with my very favorite filmmakers (Scorsese, Kubrick, Carpenter).  I am very fond of their work.  Throughout their irreverent career, they have explored different subjects and themes.  Their best stories evolve from  kidnapping schemes in films like "Raising Arizona " and "Fargo", one of my very favorites.  I thought that film was fervently free.  I was so ever wrong. It's as if the Coen Brothers have celebrated their complete breakthrough success (Academy Award winners), and now are willing to do whatever they please.  "The Big Lebowski" is a film so meandering, so wonderfully novel, that I found myself missing the many other sporadic jokes as I was heaving from laughter.  The film is basically about mistaken identity, eccentric characters, and a soiled rug.  This film extols the bowler, the allies, even the pins.  We experience an actual bowling ball POV, as the Dude (Jeff Bridges) hallucinates.  This film has nihilists, feminists, millionares, paedophiles, drugged out hippies, underachieving students, incompetent criminals, pornographers and 'Nam veterans.  This movie is open to anything , anything... Some people are turned off by absurd looniness, because it's so grandiosely different.  Yet who couldn't chuckle, if not explode, when a bowler dressed in a tight purple suit licks a bowling ball's finger hole, and the camera pans down to reveal his name as Jesus! I will disclose no more, but urgently recommend you to traverse to your nearest video abode and rent this true escapists' feature. Abandon all solemn inhibitons, though!  One can not keep a straight face whilst watching.

I am delighted with the choice of actors and their performances and that's the only thing that impressed me in this film. Not stupid, but not particularly witty. Not boring, but not particularly fun either. Holds your attention, but in a few days I won't remember what it was about. Jeff Bridges, John Goodman, Julianne Moore, Steve Buscemi, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Tara Reid, Peter Stormare and John Turturro all in one place are reason enough to recommend this movie, but don't expect too much. Reputation far surpasses it.7/10

It's a travesty that most critics only read The Big Lebowski at its most superficial level and called it a modern take on a Raymond Chandler potboiler. I simply can't begin to perceive how one could sit down in front of this cinematic pop-poetry, as it plates gold on the silver screen, and not feel so incredibly alive. The dream sequence Busbee Berkley musical numbers are unique and awe-inspiring; the humor is rich, subtle, and clever in the way it satirizes politically correct arrogance; the free-flowing story avoids (even pokes fun at) nonessentials like plot points and pay-offs. But what really makes this film such a masterpiece, such a panacea, is the incredible humanism, the care that the Coen brothers put in developing The Dude (Jeff Bridges), Walter (John Goodman), Donnie (Steve Buscemi-tremendously endearing), and Brandt (magnificently played by Phillip Seymour Hoffman). Looking at the films use of Sam Elliott to play The Stranger, who constantly rambles about the many wonders of The Dude (among other things), it is clear that the film is an ode to a Dudist way of life. And in a time where so many film promise that they have the answer to the worlds problems and end up as slick, stylistic show-off films, what more could one ask for than a good-hearted film like this? Not to mention the performance by Jeff Bridges, which ranks among the best performances of the nineties; he has a relaxed slouch, a goofy smile, an enthusiastic dance, and his buttons can only be pushed by Walter, who John Goodman plays with charm and fury. The Coen brothers have always been considered 'cold' filmmakers, but there is nothing here but warmth and humanity (as is the case with the Coens' Fargo). What we have here is one of the greatest achievements in modern cinema and if you can't see that, grab a White Russian, hit the bowling ally, and find your inner-Dude as soon as possible.

Looks like while making "The Big Lebowski" (1998)– weird, nutty, outrageously funny and deliciously twisted movie, the brothers Ethan and Joel Coens, known for their unique and dry humor, sat back, laughed out loud, and had fun. "Big Lebowski" turned as one of the funniest comedies ever made. It is funny because of the incredibly off-beat characters, their weirdness, flaws, their interactions, the surreal situations they found themselves in, and perfectly written and delivered hilarious dialogs. There is the story, of course, which is based on the case of mistaken identity with the following kidnapping, villainous nihilists, vanguard erotic flying painter, the bowler named Jesus but the story is truly secondary to the delicious craziness of the movie.Some reviewers call Big Lebowski misfire and deranged mess, saying that the story is convoluted with the characters we would not care about a bit. It was also interesting to read the reviews that were written upon its release and compared it to Coens' "Fargo" that had been made a year earlier than the adventure of Jeffrey "the Dude" Lebowski (Jeff Bridges)."Fargo" could be Coens' masterwork but it does not make Lebowski any worse. It was dismissed as the inferior film and was predicted not to stand the future re-watch. The time has proved the predictions wrong. "The Dude" Lebowski - middle-aged pot smoking, White Russian drinking, bowling enthusiast ex-hippie, and his friends, Polish Catholic converted Jew, "more Jewish than Tevye" Vietnam veteran Walter with anger management problems (John Goodman) and timid, little slow, "sweet prince" Donny (unusually quiet Steve Buscemi) have become the cult figures, the beloved characters, for millions of film lovers of different generations, not only the baby- boomers.The Coen Brothers have made twenty films, and all of them are treasure, including their contribution in the 2006 anthology, Paris, je t'aime. I've seen all their films and I want to repeat the title of my review on their latest, "Burn after reading" - The Coen Brothers don't make bad movies, because they don't know how. Their films, Including the cult favorite, Big Lebowski, should not be missed. They are clever, darkly funny, and beautiful without being pretty pictures. In short, they are first class entertainment.

How mysterious certain films can be. They become addictive. I've seen Lebowski at least a dozen time and most of the times by accident. It was on TV or a friend is watching it and it is enough to catch a glimpse to be hooked, completely hooked. Last night I saw it on purpose with a couple of friends and I think I'm stating to realize what is it - A unique combination of talents all looking in the same direction --- The Coen Brothers are, probably, the only ones who know what they are seeing and the rest just trust their vision. Totally. Jeff Bridges is miraculous. His character is unique, never seen and at the same times is all of Bridges characters put together. I love him in this part and I love the Coen brothers for writing it knowing, I'm sure, that Bridges was going to give it that real, totally real surreal kind of life. Philip Seymour Hoffman, comes in to do what he does best, being memorable and then, of course, John Tarturro, John Goodman, Steve Buscemi, delicious, each one of them - I'm pretty sure The Big Lebowski will be around for centuries and it will always have something to say even if we don't know exactly what.

Whatever you rate this film is how well you fit into the world.

... roll them into a smoke and ignite, if these necessary constituents of any great film burn bright, take a long deep draw and savour their infusion. This original, unique and superbly performed film does just that - something to be relished and luxuriate within while allowing you to put life's irritants into perspective.