This is a film which simply shouldn't work, but it does - magnificently. A story centred on a teenager who becomes the world's youngest billionaire, a web site that reaches a million users in two years, and a cast of real life characters with names like Zuckerberg and Winklevoss just shouldn't be possible. A convoluted tale of raw conflict on the origins of a new type of web site should not lend itself to an expensive movie as opposed to a television documentary. It succeeds because it is not about the technology but about creativity and conflict and about friendship and betrayal. It succeeds because of a magical combination of accomplished direction, scintillating dialogue and superb acting.The direction comes from David Fincher who has had variable success, all the way from "Alien 3" to Se7en", but here he is right on form with a flashy, but tightly structured, presentation that never fails to command your attention and interest. The all-important, sparkling script is courtesy of Aaron Sorkin who gave us "The West Wing" - the best television series ever - and yet apparently does not do social networking.At the heart of the movie is a brilliant, Oscar-worthy performance from Jesse Eisenberg as the 19 year old Harvard student Mark Zuckerberg, the genius behind "The Facebook" (the social network), the unsympathetic anti-hero of the adventure, a borderline sociopath variously described by women characters as "an asshole" and someone "just trying so hard to be" one. Andrew Garfield is excellent as Zuckerberg's Harvard roommate and co-founder of the site Eduardo Savarin; thanks to the wonders of CGI, Arnie Hammer manages to be terrific as both the twins Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss; while singer Justin Timberlake is a revelation as the Napster founder Sean Parker. This is a testosterone-charged fable with room for women only in minor support roles - ironic in that getting girls was the impetus for the Facebook project.The film opens in 2003 with a breathlessly wordy encounter and closes in 2009 with a poignantly wordless scene. In between, the story zips along at the frenetic pace characterised by the business itself. Adapted from Ben Mezrich's book "The Accidental Millionaires", the framework for the fascinating narrative is not one but two courtroom dramas or, to be more accurate, pre-trial hearings (both resulted in out-of-court settlements which tells you a lot). Clearly you shouldn't judge a book by its cover.

Maybe I'm too old. No, not maybe, I am. I saw this characters as aliens of sorts. I know they represent today's landscape, brrrrr. The film as a film is one of the best of David Fincher but the universe it explores gave the chills. A world approaching its end, fast. The youth of the characters made it even more sinister. I couldn't detect their soul or any evidence of its existence. In a way they represent the worst of the previous generations. Roman Emperors or Wall Street. Profit is the name of the game and the ideas come out of boredom of longings to get laid. Love and friendship, loyalty and/or honor as obsolete as good manners. Jesse Eisenberg is chillingly perfect as the humanoid that started it all - or did he? - Justin Timberlake keeps surprising me. Good, very good and Andrew Garfield, the most recognizable of the characters is a victim of sorts and he'll be destroyed no matter how much money he gets. How I wish this was merely a science-fiction film.

It's been a while (ignoring rewatches) since a movie has left me as speechless as i am now.
i'm about 10 years late to the party, but right from the first scene i was at a loss for words. the flawlessly written dialogue, the perfect editing and the shockingly raw performances made me so excited for this movie, and to say i wasn't disappointed is an understatement. it's been a LONG time since a movie has sucked me in like this one has, and it's definitely been some time since i actually felt sad when i saw that i was already halfway through a movie.
as the tension on screen grew, so did my admiration for this MASTERPIECE and its unparalleled pacing, captivating storyline, cinematography and soundtrack. and my lack of sympathy for mark zuckerberg. oops.

I have been a fan of David Fincher ever since I saw Se7en when I was 13. I saw all of his films the following week and not one of them disappointed me. That was back in 2003. I loved Zodiac and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button as well, but he really knocked it out of the park with this one. I was fortunate enough to see The Social Network at a screening on 9/16/10 for my college. Eisenberg, Hammer and Sorkin were there and did a Q and A after the film. It was a GREAT experience. All of them seemed excited about the film and rightfully so. The film brilliantly tells the story of college students who go through hell with each other over the credit for Facebook and the damage that comes to all of them because of it. The acting and dialogue were flawless. Eisenberg, Garfield and even Timberlake churn out performances that should get them serious attention come award time. Fincher's direction is also perfect. you can always tell a Fincher film when you see it because his visual style is so striking and The Social Network is no exception. When this is released, please go see it and watch a film that defines a generation and what the world has become.

This film has been the subject of breathless reviews. The media response has been hot and heavy too. Is this an event movie? Is this going to change the way anyone looks at anything, or is it a Vanity Fair article that got made into a feature film? I don't think this movie really lives up to its publicity. For one thing, the cinematography is almost incompetent. Many scenes are poorly lit and murky. There's a cold, gritty washed out look to a lot of the footage. The soundtrack can be somewhat invasive. It sounds like an African tribe performing "Flight of the Bumblebees" while on tranquilizers. Although there's a lot of money at stake, the story is fairly simple: a maladjusted, insecure male does various things because of unresolved feelings, especially about women. He just happens to invent a social network that goes on to include half a billion people. Although the movie has its good points, I suspect that the breathless response by the media is related to substantial ad revenues. Jesse Eisenberg turns in a compelling performance as the founder of Facebook. There is also a wonderful scene where then President of Harvard Larry Summers is unbelievably arrogant and pompous. In it, he predicts that Facebook will never amount to anything, based on his opinion as a former Secretary of the Treasury. Most of the performances are good. I didn't really buy Justin Timberlake as Napster founder Sean Parker. I've never seen Sean Parker, but he is supposed to be a hacker/programmer. Although he eventually started to date models, snort coke and hang out in nightclubs, I don't think that someone like Justin Timberlake has the type of presence that a hacker would have. Nerds and musicians definitely inhabit their bodies in different ways. I've never seen the character Justin was playing, so I could be wrong.I wish the movie explained how Facebook came to be valued at 25 billion dollars. During the time period covered by movie, the company seems to have no revenue stream except for loans. For the most part, the unimaginable wealth Jesse Eisenberg's character is supposed to have attained is not depicted. Those seems like significant holes in the story. If you were looking for some kind of vicarious joyride, this movie isn't that. It's more of a balanced look at the good and bad. The movie also contains a lot of misogyny and objectification of women, stemming from the characters' behavior. If this is popcorn movie for you, then I would consider these factors.In spite of its flaws, I'm still thinking about the movie 24 hours after I saw it. This is a picture of what's wrong with our time: insecure, inadequate males who don't know how to deal with women. Their unresolved feelings can do wonders, or destroy lives--sometimes their own.

The movie was good for what it represented, and in terms of direction, it is a beautiful piece of work as always from David fincher. I can not be clearer, it is a well done movie, and the cast is stupendous. But i couldn't help but hate everything about our central character of mark zuckerburg and everything that he stands for. What makes it worse is that this is based on true events. So lets recap for a moment...A narcissistic, and morally bankrupt mark zuckerburg decides he doesn't stand out enough in life even though he has been admitted into one of the most well known and prestigious academic institutions in the entire western hemisphere. So he decides after a little quibble with his girlfriend, he acts like a complete child and puts the rumour mill into full swing in order to avenge is insulted honour by posting humiliating things about his ex girlfriend on the internet. Afterwards, he decides to set up a minor internet site that rates the attractiveness of female Harvard students. (I'm sure i don't have to mention the shallowness of these actions, but I feel I must all the same). Then, two twin Harvard athletes decide to ask him to design essentially a myspace for Harvard students, and piece by piece from the input of many other people from the school, zuckerburg pieces it all together with the help of his colleague Saverin. As they watch their idea flourish and grow, the twins decide to take on zuckerburg in a legal battle, and also try to insight a breach of Harvard's code of conduct (neither of which are upheld for reasons i can't abide). Further on, with the help of the dipsh!t who has taught the world how to single handedly destroy the music industry, zuckerburg then turns around to cut his friend and first investor, Saverin, out of his share from 34% to .03%. And now after countless legal battles, Zuckerburg has become the youngest billionaire in history.So what have we learned...we have learned that society rewards people who are so deluded on their own over inflated self worth (like facebooks opening stock price), that they steal, lie, cheat, and worst of all, betray friends and loved ones for the almighty dollar. Why didn't anyone take care of him when they still could!!! If I was president of Harvard, he would have been out on his a$$ the minute he violated the code of conduct and never been permitted to even mop the floors of Harvard university. If no one upholds the code, why have it? I sincerely hope this class action lawsuit against Zuckerburg falls through, and he loses everything and spends a few miserable years in prison for his alleged insider trading. If he has openly admitted the accuracy of this movie and that he indeed did backstab and cheat his way to the top, I have no reason not to believe he wouldn't commit insider trading.

Let's start with the script. It's great. Written by soon-to-be-best- adapted-screenplay-nominee/winner Aaron Sorkin, The Social Network's writing is intelligent and demanding on multiple levels: most obviously, the story is cleverly structured across dual lawsuits, but there's an equal amount of sophistication to Sorkin's character work--Zuckerberg is never quite capable of maintaining a dialog, Eduardo always stops just short of explicating his emotions. Those two characters are wonderfully played by inevitable acting award nominees Jesse Eisenberg and Andrew Garfield--Eisenberg owns the brisk pace of the film while Garfield brings most of the humanity--who anchor a terrific ensemble--SAG best ensemble, perhaps? The film's score is a perfectly atmospheric concoction of electronica from edgy dark horse best original score nominees Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross, and it's all united under the name and vision of David Fincher, who did not win an Oscar for Fight Club or Zodiac or Benjamin Button.All of this is to say two things: this is a really great movie from a phenomenal creative team, and also there are times when the film feels somewhat calculated for accolades--never in the repugnantly safe, crowd- pleasing, middle-brow Benjamin Button sense, but in the sweetly transparent sense of a kid who did all his chores and is suggesting that he might deserve a cookie. You know what? Give David Fincher a cookie. The Social Network is thoroughly intelligent and engaging as a modern biopic and as an examination of evolving cultural currency, and it's also one of my favorite films this year. -TK 10/1/10