I can't tell you how good it made me feel to recapture the joy I first experienced in the theater.  I was 12 years old when this came out.  The story and plot are simple, and the lessons are very clear.  They definitely don't make films like this nowadays.  Memories of me sitting in the theater alongside my grandmother, eating loads of buttery popcorn, and telling her about all the good scenes (she couldn't see well)I have seen this movie over 200 times, and never get tired of it.  I recommend viewing both The Karate Kid, and the sequel to at least get the full effect.Awesome 80's flick, and one I'm proud to own.  Five stars.

This KARATE KID sequel followed after the success of the first film and it feels more like the ROCKY franchise than ever. Things are mixed up a bit, as there's no tournament this time around, just Daniel heading towards adulthood and getting involved with a girl for the first time. I did like the change of setting to Japan, although the movie was shot in Hawaii and doesn't always look too convincing. Pat Morita is warm and quirky as before, but Ralph Macchio matches him to craft a more likeable lead than in the first film. Less training here and more bad guy stuff from stock villains, building to a suitably powerful climax that reminded me of Van Damme's KICKBOXER, of all things.

Two years after the success of the smash hit ‘Karate Kid', it was inevitable that the forces behind this most entertaining movie were going to go on and continue the story. In ‘KK2' we get to learn a lot more about the life of Mr. Miyagi and the development of his student, ‘Daniel-san'. We once again get to see that fighting is only the last resort to your problems. There's plenty of adventure and conflict as our triumphant duo discovers more about the price of honour, the way one must fight when only the winner survives and the true power of friendship.After their triumphant victory at the ‘All-Valley karate championships', Daniel and Miyagi continue their training, focusing on the honour and discipline of karate and the deeper powers of meditation. However, when Miyagi receives news that his father is near death, he and Daniel take off to the island of Okinawa where Miyagi's family lives. Upon Miyagi's return to his homeland, he is reunited with his long-lost childhood love, Yukie. Despite their youthful love for one another, Yukie was forced to marry Miyagi's rival, Sato, in an arranged marriage, causing Miyagi to flee Okinawa forever. Now his old rival is a powerful karate expert and a rich, embittered landowner who demands a final grudge match with the wise and elderly Miyagi. As Sato threatens Miyagi and his family, his nephew, Chozen, is out to fight Daniel in a battle of young wills. Both teacher and student are forced to stand up to their rivals in a matter of honour or shame and life or death.What I like about KK2, is how the story allows us to learn more about characters that we grew to love in the 1984 movie. Sure the movie continues where the last finished off, not like your normal sequel does. Yet it does show us a different side to what we saw in the original movie. I feel that is what a sequel is meant to do, be a little bit different and allows us to learn new things about characters that we already know. The story was once again written by Robert Mark Kamen, who I thought wrote the part about Miyagi's problems back home beautifully, as is the way that we see Daniel assimilate to the customs and traditions of the Okinawa people, and the way that Miyagi's problems in the end are Daniel's as well. I feel it always helps to have the same director back for any sequel, with John G. Avildson back to bring his touches into the story as well. The great part of KK2 has to be the return of Daniel (Ralph Macchio) and Mr. Miyagi (Noriyuki ‘Pat‘ Morita). The start of film has a most powerful scene between Miyagi and sensei Kreese (Martin Kove), where Miyagi teaches Kreese a karate lesson without even raising a sweat. The popular pairs return gives the story strength to continue on as it did. They also share quite a remarkable chemistry onscreen. It also good for the story to have Daniel ‘fatherless', as he helps his teacher come to terms with the loss of his father, in one of the more emotional scenes in the movie. I must admit I like how Miyagi has faith in Daniel, even when he does not, (there is one scene where this reigns so true in KK2, and is probably the highlight of the entire film). However, Ralph shares a very special role with Kumiko (Tamlyn Tomita), as their characters fall very much in love with each other. Kumiko wants to be a dancer, and Daniel feels that she would be a successful dancer in America. Then there is the evil side to KK2. Sato, (Danny Kamekona), is still bitter about what Miyagi did to his honour before he fled Okinawa and wants a fight so he can reclaim what he believes is rightfully his. Sato's nephew Chozen (Yuji Okumoto) also has feels his honour has been shamed by Daniel, with most of the movie showing Daniel on the receiving on end of Chozen's fist. Yuji has appeared in movies such as ‘The Truman show', ‘The Game' and the 2001 blockbuster ‘Pearl Harbour'.Karate Kid II also shows off some impressive Japanese locations. The Okinawa village used as Miyagi's was striking, as were the style of the homes, as a person from western society would not be accustomed to such a different lifestyle. There is also the wonderful music that accompanies KK2. Bill Conti's melodic musical score gives the movie great tension, and you have the music from the dancing hall which was live and upbeat. Yet the standout part of the soundtrack for mine has to be the Oscar winning hit, ‘Glory of Love', sung by Peter Cetera. That is one song I like a lot.This movie is a great extension of the ‘Karate Kid' story, which shows an uplifting story about overcoming the odds and staying true to yourself. Miyagi's strong ‘anti-violence' theme continues in KK2, showing Daniel that the secrets of karate are that it is only to be used it when there is no other way. This movie is also very much about forgiveness, as Miyagi says at the start of the film ‘A person with no forgiveness in heart, living worse punishment than death'. I could not agree more with that statement. Miyagi is the standout character in KK2, as he is always calm and rational, in situations in which most of us would not be, with his character going through a range of emotions that give us a much greater insight into him. If you are a Karate Kid fan than you have to watch what is a most satisfying of sequels.  CMRS gives ‘Karate Kid II': 4 (Very Good Film)

Mr Miyagi and Daniel travel to Okinawa for a family visit.This is a fairly enjoyable but inferior sequel with moments to both remember and forget.The backstory and main plot thread involving Miyagi and Sato is pretty engaging, but the portrayal of Sato is somewhat one-note. In fact he comes across as a bit of a stereotypical ruthless Japanese businessman with penchant for bullying weaker locals like an A-Team baddie. Their situation concludes in a pretty contrived and cheesy way, but I can't help getting caught up in the plight of the characters. Pat Morita is on great form and makes the character equally as lovable as the original.There is an increased focus on Miyagi and slightly less on Daniel, which was sensible writing as Daniel had nothing further to prove that wouldn't have felt repetitive. That being said he is targeted by a bully again and there is another girl caught in the middle of it. Ralph Macchio does consistently good work and with weak material in some of the love scenes. As in the first movie, his screen chemistry with Morita is excellent.The production design is excellent, particularly the creation of an Okinawan village, plus the inclusion of the American military presence helps depict Okinawa as a place wedged between the presence of industrial, mainland Japan and a WWII occupation force.A recent rewatch of this was my first viewing since the film was released and it seemed better when I was 7, possibly due to the simplistic story, exotic location and increase in stakes from the first film. My six year old daughter loved it.

After the great first one came the second one, which was a slight disappointment. Okinawa had its charm for me and was definitely interesting, but I was rather bored most of the time. The climax was cool, but still not as much as the previous film. I would have preferred if there hadn't been a sequel. Miyagi's a cool character, but she's like a supporting character. Making the plot mostly about him was a bad idea in my opinion. For me, an above average movie that I would recommend perhaps only to fans of the series.

The original is something special, and I have revisited the original trilogy after 30 years, and enjoyed reviewing them. However as much as still kind of enjoyed this sequel, it hasn't aged well with me.When I first watched this as a kid in the cinema, I loved it, and fell for its charm & beauty, and followed the continuing story of Mr Miyagi & Daniel. The pair go to Okinawa (Japan), and end up rekindling a feud involving a childhood friend of Mr Miyagi.The main change from the first film, apart from the setting, is the focus on Mr Miyagi. We see his childhood home and what inspired his philosophy, something that his mentor learns from. When Mr Miyagi's father dies, it is actually Daniel who gives a shoulder to lean on for his friend & surrogate father this time.However, despite the parallels, and the beauty from the settings etc, it just doesn't all come together. The two leads are excellent, and you love their developing father/surrogate son relationship, but the rest of the cast are weak. Watching the cast speak wholly in broken English is a big galling (what's wrong with just allowing subtitles), and the villains are two dimensional.The love interest for Daniel is good but her lines & acting were a bit weak, but their relationship was convincing. Shame they couldn't develop it into the third film.I was disappointed to see that I couldn't enjoy this as much now as when a youngster, but maybe that says something. Maybe I've too much experience now to enjoy it, but the first film still holds very well.I love Mr Miyagi, the greatest mentor in film history, and the man we all wish was our mentor, friend & second father. For that alone, this film is worth watching again. Pat Morita created one of the greatest on-screen characters, and to him thank you. I can never explain fully the impact Mr Miyagi had on the lives of a certain generation. Thank you.