Invariably compared with "Saving Private Ryan" (SPR), this scores over the more modern work because of the focus on all the major sides of the action (British, American, French and German).All languages are used (with subtitles as appropriate - eg the Germans speak in German, etc).While true that the battle scenes are not gory as SPR's, and that the sounds of battle are muted during the dialog (unlike SPR's), it should be borne in mind that in '62, the audience rating of the time *was* a General Release ("G" in the US, "A" in the UK (I'm guessing for the UK, but it is now PG)) - which more detail would not have allowed.I think part of the purpose of this film is to allow *everyone* to see what happened 18 years before!

True, the first half an hour of Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan" is truly mesmerizing but then it degenerates into a soap opera of sorts and all the angst and horror of war evaporates until the truly sentimental finale. "The Longest Day" doesn't depend on special effects but on the minute by minute horror of its moment. It's also, if I'm permitted to say it, a lot of fun to watch. Strangely enough the all star cast is not distracting at all. It was much more in "Saving Private Ryan" with a cast of up and comings headed by Tom Hanks himself. In "The Longest Day" there are real moments, film, cinematic moments that are intimately connected with the profoundest sense of drama: The clicking of the rifle. Richard Burton, Richard Beymer and the boots of the dead German. Red Buttons hanging from the Cathedral. Paul Anka, Fabian, Robert Wagner, the landing in Normandy. This film remains one of the best, from every angle, films of its kind.

This is perhaps one of the most ambitious, epic WW2 films to have been made; certainly it is the last of the classic B&W films made about the subject. Featuring an all-star cast (John Wayne, Richard Burton, Kurt Jurgens... even a cameo by Sean Connery!), it comprehensively details the build-up and execution of the Normandy landings in 1944, taking care to show how the event was perceived by Allied and Axis soldiers and commanders, as well as the Free French resistance.  This is a film that takes great care in documenting the events of the day, without lapsing into sickly sentimentalism or getting distracted with fictional characters' personal lives (a failing of many WW2 movies since about 1970), or over-emphasising any one nation's importance in the operation (although, admittedly, Canadians may feel a little short-changed).Classic moments abound, notably the landing at St.Mere-Eglise and the soldier who gets caught in the church steeple, the frustrations of the front-line German commanders and fighters, and the numerous cameos for film nerds to keep track of.If you want a wartime romance, or an appearance by Matt Damon or Ben Affleck, or long, loving shots of the Stars & Stripes in slo-mo, or a gritty blood'n'guts fest, you'll be disappointed.  This film has broader concerns, and was made with much more thoroughness.  There is no agenda at work here, pro-war or anti-.  It is solely concerned with documenting Operation "Overlord" for the film-going public, and succeeds brilliantly; a shame then, that it has not made the top 50 war films list.A must-see for any fan of war films.

'The Longest Day' is June 6, 1944, the day the Allied assault on Hitler's Fortress Europe... And when it came everything went much according to plan... But fighting through the tough country of Normandy took much longer than had been expected...Dwight D. Eisenhower, the four-star Supreme Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces, made up the force of some two million men massed in England for the strike at Europe...Combined American, British, Irish and Canadian forces assault the beaches of Normandy in an effort to gain a foothold on the continent... From the viewpoint of the Americans and Germans involved, the story unfolds through numerous episodes highlighting the 'Longest Day.' We see the commands posts occupied by the Germans; Caen, the starting point; the French underground network; Omaha Beach; Utah Beach; Ste-Mère-Église; as well as sites and camps in England...The film is a clear examination of D-Day looked at from almost every viewpoint, particularly from that of the Germans who are overwhelmed by the forces brought against them... It is in fact Field Marshal Erwin Rommel (profiled against the French beach thoroughly planted with mined obstacles) who looks out to where the invasion fleet will appear later-or sooner, and gives the film its title: "The first 24 hours of the invasion will be decisive... For the Allies as well as the Germans, it will be the longest day."In the first half, much attention is focused on the weather, as the troops... American, British, Irish, Canadian and French are poised on board their boats and ships, waiting for the rain to stop... In the key scene when Gen. Eisenhower (David Grace), makes the decision to go ahead with the invasion on June 6, more than 5,000 ships moved to assigned positions... The importance of time is emphasized by increasing the ticking of a clock... On the other side of the channel, the German generals, who know the invasion is imminent, see the same nasty weather and decide to take some time off for war games...French Resistance fighters receive their coded instructions from BBC radio and increase their sabotage activities... Much of the early going is also devoted to some of the Allies' more unorthodox ideas, the kinds of things that make more sense cinematic ally than militarily: the use of metal clickers by paratroopers for identification, and parachuting mechanical dummies loaded with firecrackers behind German lines to create confusion...The film reaches its peak when the two sides in the battle are finally engaged...The first assault wave hit the Normandy beaches at 6:30 A.M. on June 6... The soil of France looked sordid and uninviting... Planning has been as complete as possible, but in the vast confusion of invasion under enemy fire, so many men fell uselessly when they left their landing craft, and stepped into water... Others fell into underwater shell craters and drowned...The Allied air bombing that was to have knocked out German beach defense guns had not been accurate, especially on Omaha Beach where the bombs had been laid down too far inland to do much good... As a result, the gunfire that met American troops there was more murderous than anything they had been prepared for..Today it is difficult to watch the invasion scenes and not compare them to the opening of Steven Spielberg's 'Saving Private Ryan,' but that really is unfair... Zanuck manages to display the image of thousands of young soldiers who were killed fighting to liberate France... A long aerial shot from the point of view of a German pilot Josef 'Pips' Priller (Heinz Reincke) strafing Normandy Beach reveals a shore-line of successive waves of men running for their lives trying to secure Omaha Beach... This awful waste and destruction of war: scores of trucks and boats hit by shells, or sunk by mines with their crew lost... Trucks overturned and swamped, partly sunken barges, and many jeeps half submerged... Field Marshal Rommel set to work to do everything possible to make the beaches if not impregnable, very uninviting indeed... 'The war will be won or lost on the beaches,' he states... The German command was slow to react to the invasion... They had been misled by the weather and the Allied deception plan that Normandy was a diversion and the main landing would be at Pas-de-Calais...Shot in CinemaScope and in black-and-white, 'The Longest Day' captures the history of the moment... The film tracks the book very closely, shifting the viewpoints from German to French to American to British throughout... In three hours Zanuck and his staff expand on the scope of one day, to tell mostly everything, with an exceptionally strong cast playing cameo roles... The cast could not be better, in spite of the brevity of their roles: Bourvil is the French Mayor of Colleville who welcomes the British soldiers with a bottle of champagne...Irina Demick is Janine Boitard, the sexy good-looking Resistance member...Henry Fonda is Theodore Roosevelt Jr., the Brigadier General who limps ashore with the first of the assault boats landing on Utah Beach...Christian Marquand is Philippe Kieffer, the French Commander in desperate situation in Ouistreham...Robert Mitchum is Norman Cota, the Brigadier general who chops on his cold cigar, and walks along the beach and rallies his men... Mitchum gets some great lines and delivers them with the right amount of idealism and cynicism...Richard Todd is John Howard, the major who lands by glider at Bénouville to capture the canal bridge over the Orne River...All the characters speak in their own languages... The motion picture is Winner of two Academy Awards for Cinematography and Special Effects, Zanuck's 'The Longest Day' is one without doubt an absolutely remarkable film, one of the most impressive and most authentic documentation of war ever put on film...

Simply put if things had gone differently on June 6, 1944 we would be living in a very different and very much uglier world than we have now. The Longest Day is Darryl F. Zanuck's tribute to all who were involved in Allied invasion at Normandy.Even viewing it now as opposed to the theaters back then back then I am staggered at Zanuck's incredible eye and grasp for the detail of the Normandy invasion. He did the smart thing and not only bought Cornelius Ryan's standard account of D-Day, but got Ryan to write a very coherent screenplay. Even one who has absolutely no grasp of military history will be able to follow exactly what was going on.Several of the people who are portrayed in the film also served as technical advisers of it. When you Peter Lawford as Lord Lovat or Robert Ryan as General James Gavin and many others these people aided in recreating the project.Zanuck may have had the largest movie set in history to work with, at least up to that time. You are seeing the film photographed in the places it actually happened. The beaches, the towns of St. Mere Eglise and Ouisterham, even the embarkation areas in the UK. I doubt you could do The Longest Day today because of the changes in all these places now. Lots of cooperation from the British and French governments was necessary.You also couldn't do it because the budget would be the size of the U.S. national debt today. This was the last days of the all powerful studio system and even with a lot of the stars free-lancing at that point, Darryl F. Zanuck was still a most powerful man in Hollywood with a lot of favors owed. One example was Richard Burton who was shooting Cleopatra at the time The Longest Day was also shooting. For his two brief, but memorable scenes as an RAF pilot, they shot around him on Cleopatra also a 20th Century Fox production while he filmed his part for Zanuck.Even the Germans came in for a portrait of them as human beings. Curt Jurgens as General Blumentritt, who was also a technical adviser, put it philosophically best about how after he can't convince Chief of Staff Alfred Jodl to wake up Hitler to move the Panzer Divisions, breaks open a bottle of cognac and decides to drink it before the Allies arrive.I have several favorites in The Longest Day. Richard Todd who actually was at D-Day and was a decorated hero himself, plays commando leader, Major John Howard who is asked to paratroop into France and capture and hold a key bridge intact. Todd is channeling his own as well as Howard's war experience into the film and gives a performance of unusual depth.Norman Rossington and a pre-James Bond Sean Connery who was just making his debut as Bond in Dr. No, give some good comic relief as a cockney and Irish soldier landing on Sword Beach. So does Kenneth More as a British beachmaster with his bulldog Winston.The French are well represented by Arletty, Bourvil, Christian Marquand and by Irina Demich. Being that three of these play civilian roles they get the only two women's parts of any substance in The Longest Day. I do like the scene where some Germans checking Irina out in a low cut dress, fail to properly search her. Irina also demonstrates how much the women were equal partners in the Resistance. Marquand as a captain of a Free French company is involved in a particularly bloody battle for a coastal town.Of course the American cinema is well represented. Charlton Heston was to originally play the part that John Wayne does, but he couldn't get free of some commitments of his own and when Wayne became available, Zanuck grabbed him. Heston was later quoted as saying Wayne did a better job than he would have in any event. Wayne's best scene was when he saw some American bodies dangling from roofs in St. Mere Eglise. As I've said many times, John Wayne had one of the best faces for movie closeups ever. One look at the horror expressed in his face tells you all you need to know.Henry Fonda plays General Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. who would within a month after the invasion die on Normandy Beach. Had he lived, Roosevelt might have picked up the pieces of a stalled political career. But that was not to be the case. Roosevelt was found dead of a heart attack in his tent after the invasion when the Allies were trying to break out of the beach.The heaviest casualties on D-Day were on Omaha Beach where Robert Mitchum plays General Norman Cota a division commander. Mitchum is involved at the climax of the film where American GIS after being hung up for hours, break through and insure the invasion's success.The Longest Day is not only great drama and a great war film, but it is as accurate a film as you will ever get depicting the Normandy invasion, good history as well.

Quite simply the best film ever attempted on this subject. The events leading up to the D Day invasion in France are meticiously viewed from the French, British, German and American sides. The dialogue is spoken in the national languages of the countries taking part in the invasion and this aspect alone elevates it high above most other films. The superb black and white photography adds yet another layer or realism . Cast features many international stars, but never stoops to a "spot the stars" formula like too many of these films tend to do.Clichés are avoided and the people portrayed are realistically drawn. Even the Germans are presented as actual military leaders and not the stereotypical Nazi villains . There are massive invasion scenes, quieter scenes at the villages before the raid, and a commando raid on a German howitzer emplacement in the basement of a casino, a scene that follows the attacking Allied group from an ariel perspective while they move through town past the docked fishing boats and destroyed buildings. The overhead shots of the beaches with hundreds of troops, tanks and landing craft gives the viewer a very accurate picture of the massive scale of the invasion, something that Spielberg just could not pull off in "Pvt Ryan".A three hour film that is up for repeat viewings. You will discover something new each time you view it. The screenplay was by the author Cornelius Ryan from his own book.No silly romantic subplots, just the facts. I remember seeing this film after it opened with my father and uncle. It was impressive then, and it holds up beautifully today. In my humble opinion, this is the best WW11 film ever made. One of the greats.

The Longest Day (1962)This is an ambitious movie, extremely well photographed, filled with stars and secondary actors of fame and talent. And it covers roughly at 24 hour period leading up to and into the epic and dramatic June 6, 1944 invasion of German-held France known as D-Day.On all these levels, the movie almost has to succeed. And it does. It's a popularizing account of an important event. It's history made simple, for sure, but it compresses the complexity with good intentions, and with some fair handling of both the German and non-German sides of the battles, inside and war rooms and on the beach.The movie is filled, however, with so many characters (maybe fifty who are given enough camera time to take on some small meaning, though the poster advertises "42 International Stars") and shot in so many locations (Germany, France, London, on boats, on beaches, in villas, by the bridge, in the bunker, in the strategic commands, along the roads, flying overhead, on and on) it is truly impossible to engage in any one part of it fully. Many scenes are superb, even short ones, sometimes with great actors like Robert Ryan playing with a light on his face (in a comic scary way) and sometimes with unknowns who for a moment shine in their terror. But it's necessarily fragmented and dispersed.There are, furthermore, attempts at humor that are a welcome break to the seriousness but are sometimes too silly and improbable to really make sense. It's like the humor that perks up little moments in a Chris Nolan Batman movie--except this is real life, this is the real D-Day and not an entertainment. You don't expect a documentary, exactly, but the levity--even if as cute as a young Sean Connery goofing on the beach as bullets fly around--is a bit off target.The fact that this kind of movie works this well is probably amazing. It even got divided between different directors, and so the unifying qualities show a kind of logistical planning that paid off. (There are only two cinematographers and, crucially, one editor.) And of course there is history holding it together.And this is a history that is getting lost. Fans of WWII movies (or of WWII history) will have no trouble feeling the grand, world-changing nature of D-Day. I grew up on American movies and around my parents and grandparents who had strong feelings about the war and about D-Day in particular. But young people, like the students in my classes at college, often born fifty years after the fact, have sometimes not even heard of D-Day. Many don't know a Nazi from RAF officer, even in concept. (I'm not kidding. I ask, routinely.) This is just life. Blame education if you want, but it's a natural movement forward to more recent and still living world events. We had D-Day, they have 9-11.I watched the movie with my girlfriend who is not from the States, and who knew only the outline of the war. (Her country wasn't involved in it enough to make a dent on its own history.) And so she watched with a kind of dulled boredom. The cameos by famous people were fun for both of us, and filming was to be appreciated, but the drama I felt even with the opening credits I saw was dependent on knowing the larger scope. And so this movie will have a shrinking audience and shrinking appreciation over time. It's a long watch--three hours--and it has a steady stream of great moments. But it's not a great movie in movie-making terms. Exciting and important and with a wikipedia page to make this all clear, but it's unlikely to fully integrate and take total form as a whole.

The previous comments about Canadian participation in the Normandy invasion were significant - insofar as there weren't very many. One of the five Normandy beaches was Canadian (Juno), but there is almost no mention of this in The Longest Day, and I'm sure that one would be hard pressed to find many Americans (and not a whole lot more Canadians) who know this. Unfortunately, it is movies such as this and other popular media that shape the historic knowledge of people on both sides of the border. In the near absence of Canadian content, I find it ironic that a young Canadian (Paul Anka) not only played a part in the movie as an American soldier, but also wrote the theme music. I find it also ironic that the legendary rifle used by US soldiers during WW2 and shown in this movie was designed by a Canadian as well (Garand is a French Canadian name). The cruelest irony, of course, is the fact that thousands of Canadian soldiers were maimed or lost there lives on 6 June 1944 and the days thereafter, with virtually no acknowledgement in this movie. I have always enjoyed watching this movie, but it is unfortunate that I must use my imagination to see in it the heroic and selfless wartime effort of my father's generation, in similar fashion to viewers in the US and UK.

Biggest takeaway from this mammoth all-star war movie about d-day is that the boys playing with their toys were just having so much fun. The absolute scale and seriousness of the game they were playing only emphasized the complete, male testosterone driven idiocy of the whole thing. I thought, when it was over, thank god for Einstein, thank god for Fermi and the Manhattan project, thank god for nuclear weapons which bring the masters of war directly into the line of fire. Hopefully no one is so crazy as to commit suicide (and racial suicide) by starting another world war. Because there can never be a WWIV -- WWIII will, if it happens, be the very last world war.Actually 'The Longest Day' is a terrific flick. The Germans, other than hitler, are treated with respect. As honorable, worthy adversaries. No one is inherently evil or good. The multiple storylines flow smoothly. The action is intense and realistic without being unnecessarily drenched in blood and exploding body parts like a more modern movie would feel compelled to be.

I have spent years studying World War II, particularly in France. I have walked Omaha Beach and climbed the cliff - with no one shooting at me from the top. I have walked around the square in St. Mère Eglise. In other words, I know something about D-Day.That allowed me to be impressed by Zanuck's effort to recreate a moment in history. But, with all due respect, this movie comes off, to me, as something of a dramatized documentary, a history lesson with cameos. It is great for learning about how we finally made it across Omaha Beach, for example, and up that cliff. But it pales next to the opening of *Saving Private Ryan* when it comes to making you feel as if you are there, one of those poor soldiers in the first waves trying to cross that beach.The acting is all fine, the "staging" of the scenes, especially Omaha Beach, very impressive. I could have done without the brief cameos designed to make the French civilians look foolish, as in Bourvil's portrayal of the mayor of Courville.You will learn a lot about D-Day from this movie - though not as much as if you read any good book on the subject. The movie, being a movie, leaves us with all sorts of questions. Like: why didn't the Allied air force destroy those pillboxes at the top of the Omaha Beach cliff before we landed on the beaches down below. Why didn't we have better info about German positions in the area? Etc.

A great film but as an historical record, majorly flawed. It perpetuates the myth that the British and Canadian involvement in D-Day was minimal. Nothing could be further from the truth.Strategic plans for the Normandy landings were conceived and developed by the British under the auspices of Lieut. General Frederick Morgan. His ingenious plans included the building of the floating Mulberry harbours and the construction of underwater oil pipelines between Britain and France.The Supreme Allied Commander was indeed an American, General Eisenhower; but he had never fired a shot in anger, and all the allied forces on the ground (including the Americans) were under the overall command of the British General Montgomery who expanded General Morgan's initial plans. The Deputy Supreme Allied Commander, Arthur Tedder, was British. The Allied Air Commander in chief, Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory, was also British; as was the Allied Naval Commander in Chief, Bertram Ramsay.On D-Day, British Empire forces (largely British and Canadian) put 75,215 troops ashore over three separate landings; the Americans, 57,500 over two. To these figures should be added 8.500 British and Canadian paratroopers (who achieved all their objectives); and 13,100 American.Overall, there were nearly 7,000 vessels involved, and of the 1,213 warships taking an active part in the assault, 892 were British. The Royal and Merchant navies provided 137,824 personnel; the Americans, 52,889. Of the 4,126 landing craft involved 3,261 were British; 805 were American.In addition to providing its own supplies, the British provided the Americans with nearly one-third of theirs.
.
On D-Day 11,590 allied aircraft took part in operations; almost half of these (5,656) were flown by the RAF. In addition, 1,800 RAF personnel were landed on D-Day (swelling to 3,500 by 9th June). They and over 800 vehicles were used for airfield construction and the servicing of allied aircraft.Bletchley Park's input was also hugely significant; they had broken the latest German Enigma codes some six weeks before the invasion. MI 5 had not been idle either: all German agents working in the U.K. had been captured before D-Day and many of them turned, so the Germans were receiving false information about allied intentions. The entirely fictitious "First United States Army Group" was (apart from its name) the concept of British colonel David Strangeways, the head of Montgomery's R Force deception unit. This "Army" under the supposed command of General Patton was designed to mislead the Germans into believing the allies assault would take place around Calais.The American contribution to D-Day was indisputably substantial; but it was certainly no greater than the British and Canadian. It's a pity the film does not accurately reflect this.

Hours of tedious exposition, wooden acting, cliché-ridden dialogue, poor cinematography. It has not aged well and it surprises me to see such positive reviews, although it is a kind of historical curio as it comes out of old Hollywood with passing nods to cinema vérité. It does serve to highlight what terrible actors some of the most popular American actors of the time were, John Wayne is particularly painful to watch, Robert Mitchum also appears similarly challenged in a role that is anything but challenging.Avoid.