This is saying a lot too, because to me this is the only film of the five Return of the Living Dead films to be above good standard. The sequels varied in quality, with 2 and 3 being acceptable enough though with their problems and 4 (Necropolis) and 5 (Rave to the Grave) being terrible, the latter being marginally worse and being one of the worst sequels ever made. The original however is an immensely enjoyable film, with its very few flaws barely noticeable amidst the huge amount of good.It is definitely the best-looking film in the series, it is stylishly shot and lit with a wonderful ominous atmosphere, complete with atmospheric sets, above average effects and some great make-up on the zombies. There is a killer 80s soundtrack that still sounds good and haunting rather than cheesy, and instead of the outdated quality it could have had the soundtrack makes one nostalgic for the 80s. As well as a hilarious and clever script that's never forced, doesn't get bogged down in too many explanations or too much exposition, and that is very quotable (which I don't think any of the sequels achieved and it was something that 4 and 5 could only dream of doing so), and a story that seemed tired in concept but felt very fresh in execution with so many funny moments and an equal number of highly disturbing and scary ones.Return of the Living Dead is directed with adroit class and a clear fondness for the genre by Dan O' Bannon, and while some of the punk teens are annoyingly and one-dimensionally written and acted with not much spark (the sole problems with the film, and they are not that major), the leads are written very likeably and Clu Gulager, James Karen, Thom Mathews and Beverly Randolph are charming and lots of fun (all of them at least knowing what sort of film they're in), Gulager and Karen are particularly good. Don Calfa is also suitably shady. The film also cleverly and wisely makes the zombies the stars and uses them brilliantly, furthermore these zombies actually are very menacing, a real threat, do a lot more than just shuffle and plod around and are wonderfully tongue-in-cheek, exuding real personality. The twist is deliciously ironic, adding to the freshness when it easily could have been tired or anti-climactic.All in all, immensely enjoyable and the best of the series by some margin, being the only one to be completely satisfying. 8/10 Bethany Cox

This is quite possibly one of the funniest movies ever made.It succeeds not simply thru its humor but in the way that it takes the plot seriously. That is, the characters avoid doing anything cliché or 'movie-like'. They react to an amazingly unusual situation in a very logical, sensible way (even as things become more & more desperate). Consequently none of the humor is forced. It all comes from the combination of having to deal with all the insane things that are happening to them in the sanest way that they can. The contrast of these two makes for absolutely brilliant comedy.For example:» They have to kill an already dead guy so they put a pick axe thru his head.» This doesn't kill him so they saw his head off.» This still doesn't work so they decide to incinerate him in the neighbor's crematorium.» In order to do that they make up a "rabid weasels" story to tell the neighbor.All of these things, as hilariously ridiculous as they are, actually make sense in the context of trying to deal with the situation. In other words, if you found yourself confronted with re-animated corpses you would probably do exactly what they do to try and stop them. And even as the situation slowly progresses from bad to worse to desperate the film maintains this idea.In fact, the film quite brilliantly maintains this idea at the very end. As over-the-top as the ending seemed I can completely picture the military wanting to do exactly that!

"The Return of the Living Dead" has held a special place in my heart for a very long time. This satirical take on Romero's classic (if you don't know which one, you shouldn't be reading this) is one of the greatest horror films ever made and is also one of the most respected. The direction by Dan O'Bannon, writer of "Alien" (also one of the greatest), is superb and Jules Brenner's cinematography is stunning for a film not shot in a widescreen aspect ratio (it was shot 1.37:1 full frame to save money). The scene with the rising of the zombies is best described as hauntingly beautiful yet chilling. The cast gives great performances and the special effects are astounding, as is Matt Clifford's rousing score. The nasty going-ons is highlighted by a powerful metal soundtrack featuring The Cramps and Billy Idol.The plot concerns some nasty chemical that has the ability to bring the dead back to life. When a barrel of the stuff is accidentally opened, all hell breaks loose: the cast is forced to do battle with scores of zombies (this time hungry for brains). Twists and turns abound as the cast is trapped at Ground Zero-the epicenter of the plague, if you will. All of the characters are likely even though they are mostly sleazy and corrupt. Linnea Quigley is great as Trash as is Clu Gulager as the corrupt warehouse owner. The zombies themselves are fun to watch; be warned, however, that they are not the usual slow, shuffling stiffs we've all come to love.All in all, "The Return of the Living Dead" is an amazing thrill ride that will remain in your mind long after it's over. Do yourself a favor and seek out this cult classic. You won't regret it!

Okay, we have zombies, punk rockers, a punk rock soundtrack, violence, gore, nudity, one-liners, comedy, great special effects, gratuitous profanity, an old creepy/shady mortician, an old cool caddy, brains, cheesy acting(where needed), dissected dogs, three sweet settings, and an awesome plot...BOOM! What else do you need? This movie has been one of my favorites for the past 25 years. This is by far one of the most entertaining movies I have ever seen. Hilarious when it needs to be and sadistically chilling when the plot calls for it. This movie will be remembered for years to come. A definite cult classic. If you have never watched this movie then you are depraving yourself. Watch this movie...again and again!

After reading that this remake/spoof was written by John Russo with being a sequel to Night Of The Living Dead in mind, I cannot say I am entirely surprised at its mediocrity. Director Dan O'Bannon had enough sense to decide he didn't want to end up with unfavourable comparisons to George Romero's timeless classic. So he rewrote this script idea as a sort of satire. Which is rather novel when you consider that the zombie horror concept is, at heart, a satire of consumerist social ideas. What makes this satire work is how irreverently it plays out. What counts against it is that it never seems to make up its mind whether it wants the audience to laugh or scream.Another moment in the film's favour is when one of the young punk women, played with aplomb by Linnea Quigley, strips down to her birthday suit and dances about. Not only is she very pleasant to look at this way, she remains in this state throughout the rest of the film. Even when she becomes a zombie. But that was one of the fun things about Hollywood in the mid-1980s. Women could get their clothes off without people making such a big drama about it. It would have been nice if more of the feminine part of the cast could have taken their clothes off, but this particular woman was pleasant enough to carry the show on her own.The rest of the cast do a decent job of playing the required parts, but there are no standout parts. Scratch that. The story and characters do have enough potential for memorable performances, but the actors seem utterly lost as to how to take advantage. Those who have watched enough B films will recognise a few familiar faces here and there, Thom Mathews and Miguel A. Núñez Jr. being two examples that spring to mind, but one will be hard-pressed to remember the characters' names. The real stars of this show, other than the aforementioned stripper, are the makeup effects.The majority of the zombies, in contrast to the more cerebral works of George Romero, really look like they're dead. Unfortunately, they also seem to follow that fast-zombie pattern. In fact, this could well be where the origin of the fast-zombie idea may be traced back to. The ending seems more like a cop-out than a wrap-up. Given how the rest of the film makes the zombies seem invulnerable, I suppose this was inevitable, but it also has that faint odour of poor planning. When all is said and done, John Russo appears to have been doing some serious coattail riding with his connection to Night Of The Living Dead.I gave Return Of The Living Dead a five out of ten. It is amusing enough to pass ninety minutes with, but I wouldn't want to take it with me to a desert island. It is worth a rental.

Reagan-era Romero Lite, an inaugural directorial foray from a screenwriter-by-trade capable of such divergent product as "Dark Star" and "Alien". This splits the difference between the wit and the gore while basically dispensing with terror altogether: there's too much distanced goofiness to feel much. Instead, it's a punk-rock zombie party, and as such it rocks the house, with hilarious dialogue from humans and zombies alike and social commentary limited to general contempt for bosses, cops and nuclear weapons. The screaming and general chaos do get a bit static toward the finish line, but by then a great deal of good will has been generated with the multifarious sight gags. Naming them seems redundant, because they're so iconic - the half-dog, the headless yellow zombie, the 'rabid weasels', the re-animated butterfly board. And, of course, the greatest sight gag of them all, Linnea Quigley as the stripper-punk-zombie-icon, exactly the focal point the movie needed.

With so many zombie films being made nowadays It's easy to forget how influential this film was.This film was fun, had talking and running zombies and was the first time they wanted to eat your brains.The first time I saw this I was blown away and 30 years later it still impresses and apart from some of the 80's outfits, it has aged well.As with the best zombie comedies, the humour backs up a proper horror film with some genuinely scary moments.It's fast paced and has some good effects, which thankfully because of when it was made are genuine physical effects rather than CGI or optical effects. No doubt if that had been the case then it would have aged nowhere near as well. Overall this isn't quite the Grandaddy of Zombie films ( an honour we should leave with George Romeros first 2 Dead films). Rather this is the roguish uncle who doesn't follow the rules yet everyone likes to have round every now and again as they're so entertaining.It does have it faults as some of the plot is rather holey and the gang of kids don't come across as very likable, but don't worry about that.... Just sit back and relax and watch one of the most influential zombie films ever made,

A fun zombie film, and in this case the zombies are far more agile and intelligent than in Romero's classic 1968 version. They make it clear they want to eat brains, they call the authorities and ask for more cops to be sent over to provide more victims, and they do the requisite amount of maniacal swarming over anyone living who makes the mistake of trying to confront or escape them. There are a few shock moments which work, but at the end of the day it's hard to get too surprised when the basic premise is so understood. The film is also hampered by weak acting and a soundtrack geared more towards having a party than increasing the terror of what's on the screen. It's definitely a 1980's time capsule though, and I loved its subversive ending.