...which is precisely why so many people can't handle it. Gibson could have toned everything down, but then would have been met with apathy or mockery. Both the absurd accusations of antisemitism (in a movie where almost all the characters are Jewish, and where the Romans soldiers are more brutally inhuman than anyone else), and the hypocritical criticism of the violence (there are only TWO sequences in the movie that are difficult to watch, and the first---the scourging---happens around 50 minutes in) are overblown and hyped up because these are the only criticisms people can latch on to. You can't fault the dialogue and line delivery because it's not even in English. You can't fault the direction because the minimal dialogue leads to a more visual story. The soundtrack is criminally underrated by itself. And so on. It is too well made and was way too popular to simply dismiss, and that's why it was so controversial.The violence criticisms are especially silly given that we live in this culture where audiences and critics regularly gush over shows where graphic violence is played for laughs (Fight Club), nihilism (Game of Thrones), or both (Tarantino). Is it so horrifying that a film appears which demands you take the implications of brutality seriously? Who is really the degenerate here, Mel Gibson or American society as a whole? That being said, there is an anguish which pervades every frame of this film and I could maybe see how that can color people's perception and memory of the violence. Even Roger Ebert, one of the few critics who 'got' the film, estimated that '100 minutes, maybe more' of this two hour film was concerned with graphic torture. His calculations are way off. The people calling this a 'snuff film' obviously haven't watched it and are just parroting that one loser critic. (The Passion is obviously not a 'snuff film' anyway--you're supposed to feel emotional connection to the characters and not just sadism. Some of the Rotten Tomatoes critics are obviously very anti-Christian, and expecting them to give a reliable evaluation to this movie would be like expecting anti-Semites to review Schindler's List fairly.)Do you have to be religious to 'get' this film? Not particularly, the same way you do not have to be religious to appreciate Renaissance art, much of which seems to have influenced the film. It's also interesting how relatively influential it was, given the smattering of 'visionary' Biblical epics that sprang up in its wake but were consigned to mediocrity. (Ridley Scott's Moses film and Aronofsky's gnostic Noah film).Side note: The soundtrack for this film is on another level. If you like lots of percussion and vocals in your epic soundtracks, try checking it out. Even if you don't intend to watch the movie.

This movie is about Christ in all His gory, rather than all his glory. The first Christian slasher movie. You can find more of Christ in Jason, Freddie, and Norman Bates, than in Gibson's bloody, inaccurate, and almost anti-semitic vision. Yes, he hired a Jewish actress to play Mary. Nevertheless his portrayal of Jews is deeply troubling. And his sympathetic portryal of Pilate is based on one line in the Bible. Pilate is the only figure in this time who is mentioned in sources other than the Bible. The Roman government recalled him because he was corupt and too brutal. Too Brutal! And this is Rome, the government which had people torn aprt by lions for public amusement. And Gibson portrays him as a sympathetic character? The last few hours of Jesus as described by all four gospels combined would hardly cover an hour of a film. The rest is all Gibson. One is redeemed through the blood of christ. But gibson focuses on the blood and not the redemption.

Oscar winning "Braveheart" director Mel Gibson sets a whole new standard for Biblical epics in "The Passion of the Christ," an inspiringly original but incredibly visceral account of the final 12 hours in the life of Jesus of Nazareth between his arrest in Gethsemane and his crucifixion at Golgotha. Everything everybody's told you about this two hour & six minute, sincerely-made, moodily filmed, but sadomasochistic saga rings true. However, "The Passion" does NOT qualify as remotely anti-Semitic. Sure, it is blatantly Anti-Pharisee, but not anti-Semitic. Anybody who calls "The Passion" anti-Semitic is naïve beyond belief. The anti-Semitism accusation is so general as to be inconsequential. You can condemn the actions of a handful of men (in this case the self-righteous Pharisees), but you cannot condemn an entire race of people (in this case the Jew) for the actions of a heinous few. Indeed, several Jewish characters in "The Passion" come to Jesus' aid. Labeling "The Passion" as anti-Semitic is as ludicrous as describing The Bible as anti-Semitic. Were these sentiments not sufficient, the central message of Gibson's "Passion" pleads for the audience to forgive your enemies.The violence registers off the Richter scale. The torture scene where the Roman soldiers compete to inflict the most damage on the Son of God gives new meaning to gratuitous violence. Okay, isn't violence in any form gratuitous? In this instance, gratuitous violence suits the situation, because the torture and crucifixion of Jesus were about as gratuitous as violence can get. Nevertheless, chances are you may not survive this torture scene, especially if you haven't seen a gory R-rated movie. The graphic crucifixion scene reminds us of the heartless savagery of public executions in New Testament times, too. Gibson must have spilled several gallons of Karo syrup mixed with red food coloring for this scene as well as the 45-minute flogging scene to emphasize the violence as it has never been stressed before in spectacles like "King of Kings" (1961) and "The Greatest Story Ever Told" (1965). Perhaps the only movie to rival Gibson's "Passion" for its documentary realism is the obscure 1966 Italian art film "The Gospel According to St. Matthew" that portrays Jesus as an activist.The largely unknown cast adds to the authenticity. Actor Jim Caviezel's exploits as the cinematic Jesus have been well-documented in the news media. Indeed, he took an accidental lashing during the scourging scene and nearly passed out from the impact. Later, lightning struck him on the cross. Happily, throughout "The Passion," Caviezel delivers a nuanced performance that never overshadows his messiah character. Unlike most Jesus movies, "The Passion" gives us a Christ who looks and behaves as an ordinary individual. This Jesus isn't a blond, blue-eyed loafer with shaven armpits in an immaculate white robe. Gibson shows Jesus the carpenter finishing up a table. When his mother Mary (Romanian actress Maia Morgenstern) brings him a bowl of water, he splashes it on her in an example of a playful mother a son relationship. This unusual scene of Jesus clowning is a welcome relief from those sanitized and solemn depictions of Christ as a man with no sense of humor. Earlier, Caviezel gives us a glimpse of Jesus' humanity in Gethsemane when he chides his drowsy disciples for failing to stay awake. At the same time, this Jesus is no weakling. During his first encounter with Satan, Jesus stomps the Devil's snake into the ground and gives Lucifer a dirty look. By the end of "The Passion," Caviezel doesn't have to act and looks virtually unrecognizable under all the blood, gore, and crown of thorns. Aside from Caviezel, whose acting credits include "Angel Eyes," "Frequency," and "The Thin Red Line," Gibson wisely cast no-name actors. As Mary Magdalene, a tastefully subdued Monica Bellucci of "The Matrix Reloaded" is the only other big-name Hollywood refugee. Hristo Shopov takes top honors for his thoughtful performance as the conflicted Pontius Pilate, while Italian actress Rosalinda Celentano of "The Other" makes a creepy, androgynous Satan. She is enough to send a shiver up or down your spine. Collectively, however, the actors who impersonate the sadistic Roman soldiers give the movie its gut-wrenching quality with their savage shenanigans, especially when they flip the cross over to beat the protruding nails sideways. These guys give new meaning to evil!Loosely based on the Synoptic New Testament gospels as well as the book of John along with the Catholic Church's 14 Stations of the Cross, "The Passion" champions celluloid realism, but falls short of strict theological authenticity. Reportedly, Gibson also relied on the visions of two nuns: the 17th century Mary of Agreda and the 18th century Anne Catherine Emmerich. What "Saving Private Ryan" did for W.W. II movies; what "Pulp Fiction" did for crime movies, what "Star Wars" did for science fiction movies, "The Passion" does for Biblical epics. When the actors speak, they utter their lines in either Latin or Aramaic to give this chronicle a convincing sense of historicity. Don't worry, the subtitles are easily read. Ironically, for a movie about Christ, "The Passion" doesn't preach as much as you might expect. Instead, Gibson lets the visuals tell the story. He intersperses several flashbacks throughout, such as the Sermon on the Mount and the Last Supper, but "The Passion" focuses largely on the agony of Christ. If you watch movies for recreation, "The Passion" may be more than you counted on seeing. If your faith drives you to watch "The Passion," you may find yourself sorely tested, particular when those Roman soldier wield their scourges. Whether you're saved or secular, "The Passion" remains a seminal movie for our times. Despite some minor technical flaws which you may miss because you're caught up in the action, "The Passion of the Christ" emerges as a cinematic revelation.

This is without doubt one of the most curious films i have ever seen. It has taken me several weeks to even formulate an opinion on this because it like nothing you can ever see or imagine, and for that Mel Gibson deserves praise. The Passion of the Christ generates emotions I have never felt before, I felt uncomfortably compelled by Christ's struggle and also I was frequently questioning whether I was actually enjoying it. I also felt detached because i'm not religious, so i'm basically soulless.To be honest I'm still undecided and as a 'film' I'm not sure how well The Passion works structurally, The flogging is an exceptional scene as is the crucifixion, yet the carrying of the cross seemed to drag on (no pun intended). Although it goes perfectly with the message Mel Gibson is conveying it doesn't make for entertaining cinema.The acting is impressive and the cast handle the burden of their roles well and claims of it being anti-semitic are not entirely unfounded but then different religions depict events in different ways so it is not a simple case of right or wrong.Overall The Passion of the Christ is an extremely important film because it divides opinion in a whole new way, whether you like this film or not depends entirely on your religious standpoint. It is not for the squeamish (It is extremely violent but it feels necessary) and you have to be 'ready' to see it but it is well worth a watch. ?/10

I am not a very religious person, but I sure find the bible (new and old testament) very intriguing. When I saw of the movie "passion of the Christ" I saw a small fraction of Jesus life, which might be very factual to the bible, but (in my opinion) did not make a big change for the religion. Through out Jesus's life, he taught all the good things of the Christian religion, not through his torture and death. I mean, how many martyrs have been tortured and killed? If I made a movie about the passion of Che or some other person, I would not get the religious vote, instead I would be marked as a gore movie writer. I don't know. I didn't like the movie as a movie, because it was basically the same thing I would see at the butchery, and religiously speaking, the movie did not speak to me.

To this day, the most powerful and emotional, moving movie I have ever seen. Raised a Catholic, I realized that this movie was basically everything I expected it to be. My eyes were so swollen from the crying and tears I shed. I gave my life to Christ in 2011 and this movie sent one clear message - the only way to God is through Jesus. Never have I ever cried and sobbed during a movie than I did for this one because it all happened and One Man endured all that viciousness, torture, pain and death for all of our sins. I applaud Mel Gibson on this film, the cast and the crew for giving us this once in a lifetime movie!

I have chosen to add user comments on this film based on its worthiness as a film, not from any religious or secular viewpoint.As a piece of filmmaking, this is two hours of garbage.  There is no attempt to frame the violence within a meaningful context - it seems to just be 110 minutes of violence for violence's sake, bookended at the beginning and end by five minutes of quiet.  I cannot imagine taking anyone under the age of 13 to this film and not scarring them for life. There are no redeeming qualities whatsoever within this movie.There are, no doubt, thousands of people that will disagree with my comments, and I ask them to consider this point - if this were the same film, but was not about the central figure of your religion, would you go see it?  Would you even want it to be released?  Would you feel comfortable letting your children see it?I think not.

This film is neither preachy nor pedantic, and was a welcome surprise for me. As a non-Christian who nevertheless respects the historical figure of Jesus Christ and the beauty of his philosophy and teachings, I found The Passion to be a powerful portrayal of much that I think is worthwhile about the Christ story. I know the film has been maligned for anti-semitic content (perhaps because Jews make mistakes in the film and are seen as persecutors instead of victims? - it could have been anybody!), and for various other problems - but let's face it - any movie portraying this subject was bound to face strong reactions. And kudos to Mel Gibson for not shying away from the subject by creating a sterile, gutless, Disney story out of what really was a good example of the everyday horror of life on the fringes of the Roman empire. Gibson invents a new genre with The Passion - that of historical horror. The performances in this film are inspired. I felt that the film brought out the cowardice of the apostles very forcefully, and the courage and love of the two Maries in Jesus' life was palpable to the very end. The effect of Aramaic and Latin, with the moody soundtrack, was spellbinding. Again kudos to Mel Gibson for his courage and artistic integrity on the decisions involved in these elements of the film.Final word - this is not a film for the whole family nor is it a feel-good film. Don't see it if you're not willing to confront the worst aspects of human nature up close. And don't go in looking for your own version of the story - it's not your film! This is what Mr. Gibson believes, and it's his own revelation, not necessarily to be shared by all.