Charlie Croker (Mark Wahlberg) assembles a crack team to pull off one last job; a daring heist of a safe which contains $35 million dollars worth of gold bars. However, shortly after the heist has been completed, one of the team turns against the others and escapes with the gold and leaves the remaining members of the team for dead. Following this betrayal, Charlie and his crack team which includes computer genius Lyle (Seth Green), explosives expert Left Ear (Mos Def), and getaway driver Handsome Rob (Jason Statham) set to work in recovering the gold back from the 'rat' in the group with the assistance of safe cracker Stella Bridger (Charlize Theron).I saw the 1969 version of The Italian Job some time ago and remember finding it reasonably enjoyable (although I recall it having a rather bizarre ending). However, I have to admit to possibly enjoying this remake/reboot slightly more....I think the biggest strength of this film lies with the characters and their dialogues; as we're introduced to each character we're given a little bit of background information on each character in order to explain away their relevant 'expertise' but it's done in a way that was both funny and clever. I quite liked the way that each character was set-up in this way. I also felt a great sense of camaraderie between the cast; the whole production was done in a very slick and tongue in cheek manner; I thought the scenes between Green and Statham were the funniest and strongest scenes, but the rest of the cast were all great as well.Another big strength with this film is that it's just so much fun; some heists films have a tendency to become over-plotted and throw in twist after twist. However, with the Italian Job we're just given a straight-forward plot, but yet it's still entertaining enough to keep you interested.The chase sequences are fun, the direction, editing and basically all technical areas are also excellent resulting in a film that's not only fun, but it's also quite a good looking film too.Perhaps having low expectations helped here - I thought the original was a good film rather than a great one so I wasn't expecting much here, but the plot moved along almost as fast as the Minis, the script and the camaraderie between the cast were also top notch and above all else it was fun. Definitely worth watching (especially if you were a fan of the original).

A few years ago I saw this remake of the sixties classic with the Mini Coopers for the first time and I remember liking it a lot. Now, about two years later it was shown on television and I just wanted to know whether I would still like it as much as when I saw it in the cinema. Well, the answer is yes.The movie is about a team of robbers that will do one final job in Venice, Italy. The plan is flawless and the execution perfect. They escape and won't have to work for the rest of their lives. But there is one problem they didn't take into account: Someone within their own ranks doesn't like to split the loot, but wants to keep it all for himself, even when that means he will have to kill the rest of the crew. But all but one survive and they are out for revenge. One year later, in Los Angeles this time, the surviving team members create a smart and devious plan to steal back the gold and get their revenge on the traitor...The story on itself is of course not very original, since this is a remake of the original 1969 movie, but it has plenty of goodies to offer to make you forget about that. This is a typical heist / action movie but it certainly is one of the better ones in its kind. The action is very nice, the landscapes and Venice are real eye-candy, the story is OK and the special effects are stunning. Even the acting is very good, something which you'll not often see in an action movie. I must admit that I really liked what I saw and I give this movie a well deserved 7.5/10.

John Bridger's gang of thieves are double crossed and left for dead after a daring gold raid in Venice. The surviving members regroup and convene in L.A. to enact revenge and recapture their gold ... the job is on!This could have been a complete disaster, I'm British and the wave of revulsion that boomed in my homeland upon hearing of this remake was explosive; "how dare they remake a British institution" was the cry. Things were not helped in the run up to the film's release by main star (and draw card) Edward Norton, proclaiming that the film was a contractual obligation and that fans of his work would be better advised to give The Italian Job a miss...Had to be a stinker then surely? Actually no it isn't. Director F. Gary Gray hasn't remade the "Italian Job" of 1969, in fact he hasn't even re-imaged it, the minis are in there, the gold is in there, but all the stand out moments so beloved by many in the 69 film of the same name are not to be seen at all. So what we get is a very cool heist-come revenge movie, that's maybe a tad too glossy at times, but it has got a pretty sharp script, tight action sequences and a group of actors working very well as a team. Mark Wahlberg, Mos Def, Jason Statham, Seth Green and the delectably delicious Charlize Theron all come out smelling of roses, whilst Edward Norton really had no cause for concern because his portrayal as Steve is a smarmy delight.I have jokingly titled this film "Ocean's 5", but that is in no way detrimental to "The Italian Job", it lacks the jazzy coolness of "Soderbergh's Ocean's 11", but it's a fun and enjoyable picture all in its own right, thus the rating of just under 7 IMDb is actually spot on. 7/10

The Italian Job is a real blast to watch. It's a genuinely entertaining film, something you watch just for the sheer enjoyment of it. It's not heavy with drama or emotional hand-wringing, it has no cosmic statements about life, and it's not violent or profane. It's just a fun movie. Between watching the little Mini Coopers fly around the crowded streets of L.A. and the great bits by stereotypical computer geek-turned-crook (played gleefully by Seth Greene), I had a lot of fun watching this film.Special kudos to the background music. They truly set a masterful tone for such a movie, so subtle yet keeps you on the edge when needed. Apparently a lot of artists contributed to the music, I found it to be the classiest part of the film.8 out of 10. Not awe-inspiring but a great film to watch at the end of a lousy day at the office.Barky

John Bridger (Donald Sutherland), Charlie Croker (Mark Wahlberg) and team successfully steal $35 million in gold in Venice, Italy. They get double-crossed by team member Steve (Edward Norton) and John is killed. After finding Steve in L. A., Charlie reassembles the team to rob Steve and get revenge. However, he needs the help of John Bridger's daughter, Stella (Charlize Theron), a professional safe cracker who uses her skills for good. This also stars Seth Green, Mos Def, and Jason Statham as members of the team. That's a great group of actors, and they had a fun time driving Mini Coopers thru L. A. traffic and under L. A. And I think we all had fun.

The 1969 film I don't revere as a classic but it was very entertaining, and I have to say this film is just as enjoyable. While inferior in some aspects I actually noticed one or two improvements. The plot does meander slightly in the second half, and I found Edward Norton's villain too sleazy and one-dimensional. The film is also a tad too long by about two or three minutes. But it is very fast paced, looks great, has a great soundtrack and has some wonderful set pieces, very like the 1969 film. Where the improvements come are in the direction and the script, here the direction is super-charged, in the 1969 film I found it too flashy, and the script was smarter and more consistent. And the acting wasn't bad either. Mark Wahlberg takes on the Michael Caine role with real enthusiasm and charm and Seth Green is very funny in a very different role. Not to mention Charlize Theron, who is very beguiling as the sassy safe cracker. Overall, entertaining and enjoyable. 7/10 Bethany Cox

Aside from carrying through the "Bridger" name (and he had nothing to do with the robbery either, being incarcerated during Her Majesty's pleasure), this has nothing at all to do with the 1969 film of the same name. This is just an excuse to assemble a decent cast, and have some fun. To that end, it works OK. A gang of clever thieves plan end execute a daring heist to steal a great deal of gold from an house in Italy. On their way out of the country, though, they are betrayed and left for dead in an icy reservoir. Spin on a year, and our gang - minus their leader Donald Sutherland ("Bridger") have tracked down the traitor, and are determined to get their loot back. It's quite a charismatic effort this - Jason Statham as "Handsome Rob"; Seth Green as they nerdy "Lyle" and Yasiin Bey "Left Ear" work with well the daughter of their murdered comrade "Stella" (Charlize Theron) to mastermind and execute this audacious theft. Sadly, though - Mark Wahlberg is pretty charm free, as is Edward Norton and the film takes far too long to build up anything like enough pace to get it interesting. The last twenty minutes are quite exciting, but for my money it was all too little too late. Good looking production, though - pity even the minis could not spice it up.

In crime films, protagonist's side breaks laws, steals money, and do all illegal crimes, so it is important that they win the sympathy of audience. They are usually intelligent and charming. The more important thing is that they do not cause damage to harmless people first. However, threatening pedestrians by taking car race into peaceful sidewalk and messing with public transport system filled with many citizens are all started by Charlie's gang as Steve puts it. Steve becomes the one who follows 'gang' into totally unrelated innocent people. Also Steve is the one who distances from the mass and the mess on the road.Story seems disconnected at the half of the movie. Preparation and planning part of the crime become totally different and useless after what's put into action hastily at the end. Finally, Wahlberg and Theron's performance is not charismatic enough to lead the movie, audience, or their team.

With all the money that movie studios make, it's nice to know that there are still people out there who can take the time out of their busy schedule to thank the people who got them where they are. Paramount for example has been kind enough to shrink down their latest caper movie, "The Italian Job" in to a nice 45 second trailer. If one is fortunate enough to catch this on TV (which shouldn't be a problem), they should take the time to write Paramount and thank them for keeping $7-$10 in their wallet. This movie was THAT 45 SECOND TRAILER STRETCHED OUT OVER 90 MINUTES. I am sorry, but they put everything that would have been enjoyable about this movie in the trailer. From Seth Green's one liners to the (anti)climactic car chase, the movie seemed to drag if only because I was used to seeing it resolved in under a minute instead of two hours. Save your money for something else, just take it as a thank you from Paramount.

This movie is on my "Bucket List" of best movies ever. When my kids are old enough to handle it, this movie will be required viewing. Every time it pops up on the movie guide, I can't resist watching it. I should share the fact that I enjoy movies that provide entertainment. Do I notice some goofs and factual errors, absolutely! Do I care? No! Here are the facts about this movie from my perspective.Rock solid character development and story line. Story is simplistic, characters have fairly 2 dimensional development and it all requires some suspension of disbelief. If you don't like this, watch a *&%$#@& documentary.This plot offers classic characters from Greek tragedies and Shakespeare. The thief with a heart, the thief with a heart who is going straight after this last job, the heart breaker thief, the geek thief, the brilliant thief with a chip, the scum thief who betrays everything and everyone. Then, as added spice you have the straight laced daughter who goes rogue to avenge her father. Lastly, this is the story that illustrates the edict of "Honor among thieves." All these thieves band together to pursue the thief who has violated this sacrosanct honor.I LOVE the relationships in this movie. That is what makes me watch the film time and time again. All these characters are so attractive and conflicted. I love how they interact with each other. Naturally, they complement each other, but the beauty of this screenplay is how they enrich each other in the one-on-one interactions. There is good natured teasing between Charlie, Rob, Left Ear, and Lyle. Gradually, Stella is allowed into this "boys club", but with respect for her skills and contribution not because she is just a pretty face.Honestly, this is the movie that makes me want to embark on a life of crime. If I could find partners like Charlie, Stella, Rob, Left Ear and Lyle, I would be willing to consider high stakes theft! Please, people, this is movie making at its summit. If you love deliberate suspension of disbelief, watch this movie. Just enjoy the artistry of the story/character development and the craftsmanship of the actors and directors.

This is your basic remake of an old caper film and while it has nothing new to offer as far as the plot is concerned, the action sequences are thrilling to watch. The story is about an older thief named John Bridger (Donald Sutherland) who is in Venice with his gang and they steal 35 million dollars in gold bars but when they are in the Alps they are ambushed by a bunch of armed men headed by Steve (Edward Norton) who is in their gang as well. John is killed and Steve takes off with the bars. A year later Charlie (Mark Wahlberg) gets the gang together again and have tracked Steve down in Los Angeles. The gang consists of Handsome Rob (Jason Statham), Left Ear (Mos Def), Lyle (Seth Green) and they also enlist Johns daughter Stella (Charlize Theron) who is an expert safe cracker. They elaborate a scheme to steal back the gold bars and the action never lets up. Sounds like a very familiar story and it is but director F. Gary Gray does a very wise thing with this material. Its loaded with car and boat chases with helicopters and the way they steal the gold bars is actually pretty creative. The action never really ceases much so the film never becomes boring. Forget about logic, this is one of those summer films that you can just sit back and enjoy. Its nowhere near being a great film like Michael Mann's "Thief", but it is a little better than "Swordfish" minus a beautiful actress getting topless. Edward Norton has stated that he only did this film out of a contractual agreement but he does seem to be having fun playing a real bad guy. His character Steve is your cliche' backstabber but he is enjoyable to watch. Seth Green has the funniest moments in the film as Lyle who insists that he is the original Napster and doesn't generate much respect from his fellow gang members. If you go and see this film you can expect the same story you have seen many times before but the characters are engaging and the theft itself of the gold bars is done in a very exciting manner. Sit back and have fun!