I can't speak for other people, but for me The Boy In The Striped Pyjamas is a film that can be seen once and once only because the impact is so shattering. Not even a stone statue can be not moved by this film, this child's eye view of the Holocaust.Bruno is an 8 year old German kid whose father David Thewlis is an officer in the Wehrmacht. They're living a nice life in the beginning of World War II in metropolitan Berlin. Thewlis gets orders however shipping him to a command in a nice rural area of southern Germany, presumably Bavaria. Like any other kid he's upset at being dislocated from his friends and his school, but he certainly hasn't much to say in the matter.So the family is uprooted to a lovely pastoral area where Dad's been put in charge of a concentration camp. Not one of the bigger ones like Auschwitz and Dachau, but a small one that his superiors expect Thewlis to run efficiently. Young Bruno has absolutely no one to play with and he wanders over to the camp. His parents feel he's way too young to understand about these things and he makes friends with a kid on the other side of the barbed wire, a young Jewish boy named Shmuel who wears those funny striped pyjamas like everyone else in the camp.Two things struck me about The Boy In The Striped Pyjamas. When I did a review of The Diary Of Anne Frank, the biggest impression I got out of the film was the ordinariness of that small group of Jews hidden in that attic. Who could possibly think these people were any kind of threat to civilization simply for being and believing in their faith? We get to see the other side of the looking glass here, a view of this very average German family, besides young Bruno and Thewlis, there's mother Vera Famiga and daughter Amber Beattie. Famiga is not happy one bit with her domestic situation and it's slowly dawning on her that the politics and policies of the Third Reich is the root of her concerns. As for Beattie, she's really buying into the whole Nazi thing, partly because she's going through puberty and a young and handsome aide to her father played by Rupert Friend is stirring up those first womanly feelings.But to all intents and purposes this is your average German family, not too much different than the Frank family in that attic, but that this regime of hate has made Thewlis a death merchant.The second thing that struck me and it's what gives hope to this crazy world is what passes between Asa Butterfield as Bruno and Jack Scanlon as Shmuel. If all we are as humans are reflections of our parents prejudices there would be absolutely no hope for mankind. But we do grow, we do question, some of us just don't accept everything that's fed to us. We don't see Shmuel's world of the camp until the very end, the boys mostly have contact with a barbed wire fence between them. But we see Bruno and his sister being now home schooled in Nazi teachings and his innocent contact with that kid on the other side of the fence makes him question what's going on.The Boy In The Striped Pyjamas is one of the best films of 2008. You will not forget the performances of Butterfield and Scanlon and the adult cast members. The end will shatter your mind, but the film's depiction of friendship growing in the worst possible circumstances is also a message of hope.

There are more dramatic and more philosophical pieces of cinema dealing with this very emotive subject, but few deal with the horror, futility and falsehood of the "final solution" with such clear simplicity. We see the lead characters as both humans and monsters we see internal conflict and how they each come to terms with their conflicts, above all we see how futile their conclusions were.There will be the predictable comparisons with Schindler's List but you might also want to compare this movie to "The Counterfeiters" which also deals with the conflicts necessary to survive. Watching this movie I kept being drawn back to Primo Levi's book "If This is Man" the story of his time as a prisoner suffering from this evil.The great success of the film is its simplicity, it does not seek to over analyse but simply allows the development of the characters to tell the story.One of the contributers spoke of how he was in screen 9 (if I remember correctly) in Cineworld Dublin - I was in Screen 11 and I can had the same experience, the film ended and no one moved, all were in a state of shock, no, sorrow. This is not a film for young children, but older children and adults familiar with the evil addressed in this movie should go and see it. This movie deserves great success. I rate it 9 out of 10 and would have given it a perfect score except for some small technical questions, but none that take away from this fantastic piece of cinema - All associated with this movie should be rightly proud of there work and if any of you read these comments - Thank You!

My fiancé and I purchased tickets for a special advanced screening of this movie during the Carnegie Film Festival in Dunfermline, Fife. I didn't realise, but we were one of the first people to see it. I will try and not spoil it and keep the review very simple and straight forward.The film is mainly shot through the eyes of Bruno played by Asa Butterfield growing up in war time Germany during the holocaust. After relocating at the will of the German Army, the film then centres on the friendship between Bruno and Shmuel (Jack Scanlon). I will end it there as I don't wish to spoil the rest of the film.Putting to one side the fact that everyone has a flawless English accent (which does make it difficult to hate them at first), the cinematics, sound, editing and above all acting are a credit to the British film industry.Asa Butterfield is fine young actor and I'm sure will be destined for even greater things in the future.As I mentioned above, I won't give anything away, but I will say that this is the first time I have been to the Cinema and everyone sat quiet right up until the end of the credits.Please, please see this film. It will remain with you for a long time.

There has also been some criticism of the fact that all the actors speak in Received Pronounciation English accents (even American actress Vera Farmiga, whose English accent is completely faultless). This is true, although to be completely accurate, all the actors would have to speak in German and the film would have had to be subtitled as a result.In truth, however, none of these criticisms actually matters a damn. For even though all of the above is undeniably true, the film still works. And my, how it works. When it finished, I sat in my seat stunned (I had the same reaction after watching "Disaster Movie" last week, but most definitely not for the same reason, I assure you).The Holocaust as seen through the prism of 8 year old German boy is a novel approach and although we all know what is happening at the camp nearby, at the beginning, he does not. And every step he takes, he gets closer to discovering the truth, losing his childhood innocence in the process.What I liked about this film is the sophisticated and multi-layered portrayal of the German characters. None of them are one dimensional wholly evil characters but nor are they wholly good either (not even Bruno who tells lies on several occasions, one occasion which results in brutal punishment for one of the prisoners as a consequence).

Although it starts of slow,you soon get wrapped up in the story and feel as if you are there. It's amazing to see the different points of view and the acting is so believable you feel as if it is all happening there and then. I have cried at films in the cinema before but this is the only film that has made me want to sob. When it finished and the credits started rolling, no one moved from their seats or said anything. We were all shocked, and when people did start to get up an leave the cinema, still no one said anything. It is the best film i have ever seen and recommend everyone sees it.Sophie x x x

If you want the definition of ironic, it would be the plot to The Boy In the Striped Pajamas. Everybody knows the story of Hitler and 1940's Germany. A military man moves his family out into the country so he can work at a concentration camp. His eight year old boy wanders off and finds the camp and befriends a Jewish kid from the other side of the fence. A combination of the child's naivety, strong story, and somber music makes this movie very powerful and brings a new insight to WW2.The main force behind this movie and what really keeps it going is Bruno. He is the eight year old boy and the main character. He is forced to move away from his friends in Berlin and is looking for a new friend. He meets a Jewish boy in the concentration camp and he has no idea what is going on. He is young and knows little of the war and the terrible things his father and countryman are doing. There are moments in the movie where he asks stupid questions and it makes the audience just go, "oh, no. I know the answer, how can you be so blind?" Then I remembered he was eight years old and has no business knowing what is going on. His older sister is twelve and she gets it. She talks about joining the Hitler youth and she becomes war driven. She is being brainwashed and corrupted by the adults around her. Her whole existence is the show the vile works of the Germans in that time. It's odd how each character in the family is completely different, obviously it is on purpose. We have Bruno, the main character who is completely blind and innocent. It is his blindness and innocents which makes the movie. Then we have the father, Ralph, who is also Professor Lupin in Harry Potter, just a side note. He is the definition of evil. He works at the camps. My favorite scene is when they are all at dinner and he basically interrogates one of his officers and finds out his father was Jewish. On the spot he has the man taken into the other room, beaten, and killed. It is a powerful scene and shows the reality of the situation. One could argue that it's not his fault because he is just following orders and Germany was corrupt by one insane tyrant, but that's not the point. This movie isn't about the war or Hitler or even the Jews. It is about the relationship between the two young children battling the odds Then there is my favorite character in the entire movie, and that is the mother. She is special so she gets her own paragraph.Elsa is the mother of this family and she is protective of her children. She knows the danger bit is also blinded by her surroundings. She knows what her country is doing with the Jewish people but she has no idea that they are dying. She finds out that they are being gassed and burned and she flips out. This says a lot about her character and how she did not approve of her countries actions. This is a bold move by the director because he disproves the stereotype that everybody in Germany hated the Jews and approved of Hitler. She is a strong character an gives the movie a different edge.The movie is a little slow at first and it takes a while for the backbone of the plot to kick in. This movie is 94 minutes and it takes a while before the two boys even meet and build their friendship. Another problem is the little screen time the little Jewish boy is in the movie. The title of the movie is about him and he isn't really seen as much. When he is on screen he tries to tell the truth to young Bruno. He is eight years old and he knows and understands everything that has happened to him. There is one point in the movie where Bruno messes up and it almost costs him his life. I like Bruno as a character but he was a coward and he made foolish mistakes. As the movie progressed I began to realize there were only two outcomes to this story and both are very sad. Pacing problems, limited time with a main character and my major problem is the lack of character development. Every character with the exception of the mother is the exact same from the opening credits to the end credits. The father is a jerk. The boy is foolish and his sister is corrupted. This made the movie a little boring and even though it was a short film it felt really long. I wanted to see more but I can't think what else could have been seen. The strengths definitely outweigh the weaknesses but the weaknesses are still substantial.Overall, I did enjoy The Boy In the Striped Pajamas. The music added an emotional touch throughout and one thing you need to understand is that the main character is a kid and you need to think like a kid to understand what he does. By no means is this a happy movie, but more tragic with a few glimpses that would make any parent proud. Watch this movie but be warned, it is not for the faint of heart. The acting isn't anything remarkable, the characters are strong but have little development, but overall enjoyable. This movie gets the WillyT Honorable Mention.

Being Jewish and having family that died in the holocaust, these types of movies always touch a nerve with me.I thought it was a fantastic idea having a movie based around the war through a naive child's eyes. What this film showed to me was how when you remove the political, racial and cultural issues from people there is potential for us all to get along.The main character played the role of 'innocence' beautifully and his non judgemental eyes just made my heart flutter at the thought that during such barbaric times compassion still lived within humans.The film maintained fascination throughout, seeing how the effects of what were going on around him effected the rest of his family, which led to the finale. For me it showed the ultimate idea of 'shoe on the other foot'... how in life we can feel OK about handing it out but when taking it back we realise what kind of twisted evil beings one can be.I highly recommend this movie for any adult, though this film is based around Nazi Germany and the Jews, the ideas behind it can apply to any destructive situation that is going on in the world today.Overall this is a 10/10, powerful stuff.Andrew Barbarash

The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas is an incredibly devastating movie which will leave you as an emotional wreck by the end... trust me. Even so, it is one of the sides of the war which is rarely shown in cinema and as a result, is a very important view and should be watched by everyone.
I originally watched this movie in Secondary School when i was no older than 13 (my English teacher must enjoy watching kids cry). It has stuck with me ever since, and still to this day it leaves me speechless.The story is told from the perspective of 8 year old Bruno, which provides the audience with a different perspective to the war that isn't seen too often. From an innocent mind. This only helps to make the movie's ending so much more powerful. Without giving anything away, this movie will stick with you for a long time.The movie itself has been created beautifully. The cinematics, sound and editing is amazing and really helps create the perfect picture. I want to mention separately how good the actors were though. Some of these scenes wouldn't have been anywhere near as effective if it wasn't for the acting. 10/10. Makes me so proud of the British film industry :')I highly suggest you watch this movie. Just have some tissues ready.

Bruno (Asa Butterfield) is the eight-year-old son of the commandant of a Nazi death camp. Shmuel (Jack Scanlon) is a prisoner of the same age. The two boys meet on opposite sides of the barbed wire fence that encloses the camp. Thus, the set up for endless banalities.You have to be very careful in dealing with the genocidal program of the Nazis because the historical events are so moving that they are easily exploited and cheapened. And you have to be careful with children on screen. They're so often childish. They so often seem to be there in order to be abused or get sick and need a kidney transplant.These are onerous problems, but this movie manages them fairly well until the very end.We see a relatively normal German family through the eyes of Bruno. Dad (David Thewless) is a little distant, perhaps, by our standards, but Mom (Vera Farmiga) is in charge of the kids anyway. Kinder, Kirche, Kuchen, you know? Dad is mostly around to make major decisions regarding the household.Their house is in the countryside, far from home, but near the prison camp. Alone and friendless, Bruno wanders through the woods until he meets and befriends Shmuel. He asks Shmuel the kinds of questions an inquisitive eight-year-old might ask. "Why are you wearing striped pajamas?" Bruno begins to question his father's probity too, which is always a bad idea, especially in a traditional German family, especially when Dad is an Obersturmbannfuhrer in the SS and is killing and cremating Jews, like little Shmuel, by the thousands.It's well photographed and nicely acted. The lead performances are fine. David Thewless isn't presented as a bald, bespectacled monster. And Vera Farmiga, with her strangely askew features, does a nice turn as the mother who discovers, all at once, that people are being murdered next door.Some of the moments are more expectable than others. When Shmuel is discovered in some mischief, he's hustled off by a stern SS officer for a talking to. The next time Bruno meets Shmuel at the fence, Shmuel's head is down -- and we know instantly at the shot that when he lifts his face it will be battered. That's pretty cheap.In fact, except for the family dynamics and the colloquy between Bruno and Shmuel, the trajectory of the plot is fairly predictable, at least until the very end when it falls apart completely.It's unbelievable that Bruno could get a gander at a propaganda film produced by his father, portraying the camp as a kind of Club Med resort with games and music -- and still believe it. He has, after all, been talking at length with an inmate. It's even less believable that Bruno and Shmuel would giggle with delight as Bruno transforms himself into an inmate and crawls under the fence only a few minutes before the two of them, along with a horde of others, are swept up for extermination.We see Farmiga reduced to hysterical weeping and Thewless stone-faced and distraught, as if, "There, that will teach them a lesson about humanity." It would have been more realistic and ending, more demanding, and equally tragic, if Bruno had said good-bye to Shmuel for the last time and left with his mother and sister for the safety of Heidelberg. The existing ending is too easy. Moral lessons aren't forced on us with such easy drama in life. As it is, the fundamentally decent Farmiga has learned nothing, and the self-disciplined Thewless will never admit to the evil he does.

I have read and seen a lot about the Holocaust, and although I know that a story like that could not have happened in reality (the single line fence, where two kids could have met unobserved; the naivety and ignorance of an 8-year old boy), I was very moved and found the film extremely well done. In the end I could not hold back tears.As a German for once I thought, wow, here is a German family in the Nazi period in a British film that does not look and sound like a caricature of Germans. The fact that all actors talked in accent-free English made it sound the way Germans sound to Germans: normal and without accent! The characters are even likable, in the beginning even the father.And that is what makes the Holocaust all the more horrific. That there were so many "normal" people involved who, under different circumstances, would have led an unremarkable life, and would have been (more or less) nice and good colleagues, neighbours, family people. Only that, when their moral conscience was demanded, they were not able to see, to feel, to say 'no', out of a fear to stand up to 'authority', out of a misguided sense of 'duty', out of career ambitions, out of a lack of self-confidence that seduces one to follow the crowd, to use those that are singled out as 'enemies' and scapegoats to look down upon, to mistreat them, and in the end even to kill them. (The fact that it were your own people, sometimes your own grandfather or other family members who were involved in these crimes--and who you have known as friendly, lovable people in your family--is not easy to come to terms with for Germans who were born after the war.) Hats off to all the actors, but in particular to the two boys who played Bruno and Shmuel.

This contains mild spoilers about the ending. I had read the comments on this page before i left for the cinema and so was hoping for good things and i was not disappointed. I had already read the book and so knew what to expect and told my sister and my cousin they were going to cry at the end. They both did, i have never seen my sister cry so much at a film. Even the British accents that everyone is going on about didn't put me off, i loved Bruno and thought the Mum was excellent. I had read that people had been sitting silently in cinemas after the film was over and i really didn't believe that people would, but we all did. Everyone in the cinema was silent and stayed at least until the entire cast had gone up. I would recommend this film (and the book), but i do think the 12A certificate it got here, in the UK, was too low. The end was traumatic and it should have been a 15. (My sister thinks it should have been a 21 so she couldn't see it. She's still rather upset)