There is only one movie in history that I can name that my wife, my mother and my six-year-old daughter enjoyed equally. This is it.This is an astonishly effective and pleasant remake of a very good film. It's light, romantic, touching and downright funny. You cannot pour enough accolades on young Lindsay Lohan, who effortlessly plays both twins, and, if you listen closely, juggles four accents. (She changes her Brit accent when she plays her own American alter-ego pretending to be herself in England - if you saw the film, you know what I mean).Natasha Richardson and Dennis Quaid with that big, goofy, infectious smile, give the film its romance and maturity, without stepping on the fun-filled kid's plot. This is simple, easy-to-watch family entertainment.There is also a great editing and effects element. You never once notice a split screen or cheap over-the-shoulder shot when both of Lohan's characters are on-screen - its really quite astounding how seamless it is.My daughter, after seeing this in the theater, quickly proclaimed this her favourite movie ever. We own the video, and I have watched it with her at least a dozen times without growing tired.A perfect rental after a bad day, or when you want to have a family movie night. *** out of ****.

This is one of those rare cases where a terrific movie is equaled by its remake. Hayley Mills carried the dual roles of twins learning of each other's existence and concocting a plot to reunite their divorced parents splendidly in the '60's version, and Lindsay Lohan showed wonderful comedic talent at an early age in this delightful remake.It's a Disney flick, so the comedy is family slapstick variety as you would expect. The evil stepmother-to-be is over-the-top evil (even called Cruella De Ville by one of the girls), and she's a character you love to hate. The obvious chemistry of the parents (Randy Quaid and Natasha Richardson) is great, and begs a question which is never answered to satisfaction, "Why did they split up in the first place?" Everything in the film symbolically shows that they were made for each other: even their respective maid and butler take a shine to each other.The fx and editing to stand Lohan's two characters together is magnificently done; it really looks like two actresses. No split screens, backs of heads of fake-looking "doubles" etc. to distract you from the movie. Lohan skillfully contrasts the American/British accents and mannerisms of the two girls; you know and believe which twin she is at any given moment.Well directed, well acted and fun. I'll even forgive the film makers for ripping off the stranded-in-the-lake scene from "Meatballs." The closing credit snapshots provide a sweet epilogue to tie up loose ends.Good family oriented comedy worth a rental.

This movie is so sweet it should have a warning label for diabetics. Natasha Richardson and Dennis Quaid play divorced parents who more than a decade later are not sure why they divorced. Instead of opting for joint custody, each of them opted for sole custody of one of their twin daughters. The girls grow up never knowing because their parents never said they had an identical twin sibling. When the twins meet in camp and discover who they are, the plot is set in motion.Richardson and Quaid are wonderful as the likable parents, still very much in love, even after a decade apart. But, the star of this picture and the one on whom the story turns is Lohan. She is bright, perky, adorable, and completely convincing as both Hallie and Annie. If she isn't, this movie falls apart fast. But, not to worry. Lovable Lindsay makes not a single false step.She is so good, I found myself thinking about the actress, not the character, feeling a twinge of sadness that Lindsay was not more like Hallie and Annie. This is a wonderful movie, almost too sweet at times. It had me in tears at all the right moments: when the twins meet, when they learn they are sisters, when the parents discover they've switched places, and when the parents inevitably reconcile. First rate family entertainment thanks to a star performance from a very young, very talented Lohan.

I think that this is the best Walt Disney film that I have seen since  The Last Flight Of Noah's Ark. It is a delight from start to finish and  every bit as wonderful, perhaps even better then the originial. This ia  a welcome return to the good old fashioned clean family films Disney  used to make. The soundtrack is wonderful and Lindsey Lohan is a great  little actress who plays the two parts very well (I love her British  accent). Dennis Quaid and Natasha Richardson were terrific at playing  Brian Keith and Maureen O'Hara's old parts. A young actress named  Elaine Hendrix is a great comic villianess. I detested her character  and laughed my head off when those girls gave her just what she  deserved. Some people might say that this plot is old and clichéd by  the standards of today, but it still works. They should release this on  a double bill with the original. I hope Disney keeps on making films  like this, goes back to "the good old days" so to speak.

The movie concerns two little girls (Lindsay Lohan in a dual role), they are Hallie Parker and Annie James and both of whom are about to find out . Hallie is a cool girl from California. Annie is a fair rose from London. While they are at a summer holidays camp , they accidentally meet themselves and after dealing with antics each other, they think they have nothing in common except...they're identical twins . As the sympathetic girls suddenly discover the surprise they're twin sisters and scheme a change of personalities among different parents , but they are separated since the divorce . The father (Dennis Quaid) lives in California and the mother (Natasha Richardson) lives in London. The father get married a young (Elaine Hendrix) and the girls are planning the parents reconciliation by creating an impossible life to the father's love r. What if you spent your whole life wishing for something you didn't know you already had? ! Now they're up to their freckles in schemes and dreams to switch places, get their parents back together and have the family they've always wished for!It's a remake of the classy film featured by Mauren O'Hara and Brian Keith along with their daughter played Hayley Mills but here is adapted to the modern times . Lindsay Lohan's interpretation is top-notch likeness to Hayley Mills of previous film , she interprets both roles and she performs outstanding . Lohan is actually a star since she played ¨Mean girls¨ , number-one in United States box office . Special mention deserves Elaine Hendrix as father's bride , her acting is excellent as the ominous and avaricious fiancée . Joanna Barnes who played the bride in the first version here plays Hendrix's mother . In the film there are family incidents , comedy , tongue-in cheek , humor and results to be pretty bemusing . The picture obtained quite success as well as the first adaptation . The motion picture will appeal to familiar comedies fans. Rating: 6/10 . Very nice . Well worth watching.

Lindsay Lohan, known for being an easy press target, used to be cute! This movie is a good example of her red-headed, freckled goodness! In this late 90's remake of a Hayley Mills classic, Lohan plays both homely Napa Vallley girl Hallie Parker and Prim and proper London native Annie James...who unexpectedly meet at summer camp and don't exactly take a fancy to each other. But, when both put in the isolation cabin due to their antics, they learn they are twins separated at birth. So, predictably...they swap places, meet their parents...but there is an ugly surprise: Hallie's dad is about to wed snooty newspaper reporter Meridith Blake...this could thwart their efforts to bring their parents back together...or will it? This was, overall, a very entertaining film. Lohan was adorable. The performances of Natasha Richardson and Dennis Quaid as the parents were also very memorable! I recommend this if you like the cute redhead version of Lohan...

Wonderful remake of the 1961 Hayley Mills film. This film is much more realistic, with better acting. Lindsey Lohan is amazing as both Hallie and Annie--I really did think she was two people, she portrayed the two different charactars fantastically. All the different charactars in this movie are really funny as well, and there are no bad actors. The plot just zips by! I give this movie 10/10.

This is a quirky Disney flick that is geared toward children and families. A very young Lindsay Lohan plays twin sisters Annie and Hallie who were torn apart when they were babies and before they could remember they each had a sister.The first part of the movie takes place at a rustic Maine summer camp and includes all of the typical rascally hijinks you'd expect to see in a movie about young children at a sleepaway camp. Hallie shows up at the camp from Napa Valley, where she lived in an enormous mansion with her father who is some sort of mega-rich winemaker. Annie shows up at the camp from London, where she lived in an enormous mansion with her mother, who is some sort of world-renowned dress designer. Privilege is abound in this flick!The two girls discover that they are sisters by talking about their home lives and families and devise a plan to get their parents back together. It all works out in the end and the parents to reunite, but at what cost?Randy Quaid plays Nick Parker and Natasha Richardson plays Elizabeth James as the parents of Hallie and Annie. It is revealed that the two had a fling of a relationship, popped out twins, and then decided to split. The arrangement was that each parent would take a twin and then never allow their daughters to know that they have a twin sister.Essentially, each of the parents willfully abandoned one of their children just so they could go on with their own self-absorbed personal lives to chase their "dreams" and large sums of money. Nick Parker and Elizabeth James may be two of the worst villains you might see. However, the producers at Disney do not portray it this way and instead portray Nick's fiancee, Meredith Blake (played by Elaine Hendrix) as the villain.Annie (now in Napa) plots to destroy Nick and Meredith's relationship and ultimately succeeds. Meredith Blake may not be likable due to her acidic personality and questionable motives for marrying Nick, but she is by no means the villain here.Nick and Elizabeth are two of the worst parents around. They essentially lied to their daughters for 11 years. Nick fell in love and became engaged to Meredith and lied to her about his deep, dark secret, too!Ultimately, the movie celebrates the two lowlifes for falling back in love, getting back together, and reuniting Hallie and Annie. I guess the lesson here is that even the bad guys win sometimes.

Remakes are never as good as the original so I never bothered watching the 1998 version as I had seen the original in 1961 and it was a film that sticks in your memory. One night I could not find anything I wanted to watch on TV so was flipping through the channels and came across this version on Film4 (UK satellite TV). The film was half way through and I loved it. I found the film on the same channel a few weeks later but once again missed the first part. The same happened a 3rd time so I went through the channel listings for the next month until it was on again on 23rd Jan. I then recorded it on both my living room and bedroom SkyPlus boxes. Although a Disney comedy I find this version to be a real tear jerker. 10 times there are scenes that bring a lump to my throat and tears to my eyes. I have watching it least 50 times and still watch it at least twice a day. The cast are perfect with Lindsay Lohan stealing the show. The most beautifully emotional film I have ever seen.

A couple get divorced (for no good reason that is ever explained)and decide to each take one of their twin daughters with them - so as never to have to communicate with each other again. Subsequently, both parents appear to forget they ever had a second child, never bother to tell either twin that the other exists or discuss with them their missing parent. That is the ridiculous premise upon which The Parent Trap is built. And this, one reviewer described as "good, clean family fun"? Good clean dysfunctional family fun, perhaps.If you can get beyond the glaring flaws in the plot you'll be impressed by the cast. Lindsay Lohan is exceptional. Even her English accent is flawless - pretty amazing for an actress of any age never mind one of eleven! And it is especially commendable as it is the only accurate reference to England and the English in the entire film.We don't have "Oreos" (or however you spell it) in England so when Halle/Annie both claim to have always enjoyed eating them with peanut butter it just comes across as clumsy product placement. But then again, Disney's chocolate box version of London only exists in the mind of people who've never visited it.Annie's relationship with her "Butler" is too intimate for a professional relationship and their handshake ritual is, frankly, ridiculous. As is the pairing of said camp butler with butch nanny in the romance stakes.An odd film, not badly made but still odd. It trivializes divorce and its repercussions in the context of a family entertainment. A contradiction in terms, me thinks. In the real world, parents like these should have been "trapped" by social services but that would hardly make for Disney entertainment, would it?!

Walt Disney's 1998 remake of The Parent Trap is a sensational piece of family entertainment. This film marks the theatrical debut of the incredibly attractive Lindsay Lohan, who is now one of today's biggest stars. Lohan was a great choice for the dual role shown in this wonderful two-hour show. Lohan was beautiful even as a preteen (she was 11 years old when this movie was made). When I saw this movie for the first time, both of her characters, Hallie and Annie, really captivated me. Lohan really sparkles and does some adorable stuff throughout the entire motion picture. Both Hallie and Annie have a strong way with affection, and that is something that I deeply admire. I was touched when the two girls hugged each other in the camp's isolation cabin. Hugs are joyful and so is this movie!

'The Parent Trap 'is a remake of another movie from 1961 with the same title and also remembers a lot'' It Takes Two' with the Olsen twins. Since I watched both movies (''The Parent Trap'' from 1961 and ''It Takes Two'') before this new remake, I found it totally predictable, even this movie having some small differences of the other two. I think the nicest thing about watching this film is to see the young Lindsay Lohan in a cute movie. The first time I watched this movie(1999) Lindsay was not famous, so only now, taking the movie to watch again that I could notice that she was in there. We also have Dennis Quaid as the charming dad of the girls, and the actress who plays Janice(Maggie Wheeler) in 'Friends',as one of the women working in the girls camp.

The Parent Trap is a must-see for anyone, even adults! When this movie came out I was 9 years old - now I'm 23 and STILL love it. The jokes and plots hold up well, even 13 years later. I watched this movie the other day and cannot believe how much I still enjoy it.The soundtrack is amazing, as well. The decades-old songs work so well with this movie, which is a great surprise. The Parent Trap has one of the best soundtracks to a movie (okay I'll admit it... I own the CD and STILL listen to it in my car!)Do yourself a favor and see this movie if you haven't already. I've never met a person who didn't like this movie. Plus, it's endearing to see Lindsay Lohan as an innocent child (though sad comparing to what she turned out to be.)Bottom line: You won't be disappointed. 10/10

I agree with another author who said that the one dimensional "support" characters...that is, everyone but Lohman...did not help this film. The original was indeed more of a cast movie, there were several good roles. I was embarrassed for Dennis Quaid. Talk about phoning in a performance! And there was no relationship evident- past or present, with Natasha Richardson's character. Neither had substance.And the ridiculous "butler"- what's with that? Was he meant to be gay originally and then the writers changed their minds? The little dance with Annie was also embarrassing. It appears that no one gave any thought to character development at all. Why oh why did the parents get together in the first place, and ditto for the second time around.The main interest here is comparing it to the much superior 1961 version.