Riddick might not be the right character to build an epic saga story line about, but he's the right character to make a franchise with and this film proves that Vin Diesel's Riddick role is fun enough to watch with great action set pieces.

Fantasy / action movie. The 2nd film in the Riddick trilogy, changes style, does not follow the Alien style of the first, but emphasizes imagination and action. The threat here is conquerors who are somewhat reminiscent of Star Gate and seem powerful and invincible. Will the intelligent Riddick finally survive? Plenty of action, interesting plot, effects and generally a complete fantasy movie. The best film of the trilogy is recommended to everyone.

In the prologue of "The Chronicles of Riddick", Dame Judi Dench as Aereon, leader of the Elemental race, declares that to battle great evil sometimes requires "another kind of evil". That "evil" she speaks of would be Riddick, played by Vin Diesel. Perhaps Riddick (Diesel) is another kind of evil. Although he seems more the classic rogue warrior, beholding to none, who eventually transcends to an avatar. He becomes the chosen one in a battle between good and evil-- a battle that initially was never his nor did have any stake in it. David Towhy's "Chronicles of Riddick", which follows the main character of his "Pitch Black", is very unwieldy, needlessly convoluted, and ambitious in scale and scope. That being said, I enjoyed the movie largely because of Vin Diesel, and the appeal of the character Riddick. Here is the deal. The Elementals are some kind of ethereal guardian race, who follow some sort of doctrine of non-intervention. Ultimately, they are part of the storyline. The great evil are the Necromongers, a ruthless fascist military race, bent on the genocide of all humans throughout the galaxy. Their leader is the omnipotent, Lord Marshall (Colm Feore). The dark Lord is hinted to be "half living and..." Aereon (Dench) prophesies that the powerful Lord will die by the hand of a Furion, member of the extinct elite warrior race. In the prophesy, Riddick is that Furion. Hence, the mythology is in place. Unlike the very poorly done messiah tale of "The Matrix Revolutions", Twohy's "Riddick" does not really take itself so seriously. This is a good thing. "Chronicles" is set five years after the prisoner, Riddick, and survivors escaped the deadly planet in "Pitch Black". Bounty hunters tracking Riddick, bring him out of seclusion and back to civilization on Helion II. There he seeks out his old friend, Iman (Keith David). Riddick thinks that Iman had betrayed him to bounty hunters. He does so, but discovers that the young boy, Jack, with whom they escaped was really a girl, Kyra. Kyra (Alexa Davalos) has the story that Riddick abandoned her, when he had intended to protect her from harm by leaving her and Iman. Kyra in turn has become like Riddick, now a murderous inmate on a planetary penitentiary. This is a rather forced plot twist which works in this story. Having Jack be Kyra lends compassion to Riddick which is a cool character paradox. One of the endearing aspects of Diesel as Riddick is that he does not care about anyone, including himself. Kyra gives him something worth fighting for. While on Helion Riddick, witnesses the sheer brutality and ruthlessness of the Necromongers. He also demonstrates his fearlessness and awesome warrior prowess. The battle lines are drawn, and Riddick must surrender to his destiny... or not. Twohy's story is very kluged, though his direction has effective pace and energy. Some of the action is sharply edited in a quick cut style which makes details difficult to discern. "The Chronicles of Riddick" really relies on the powerful presence and intensity of Vin Diesel. Diesel is at his best playing bad boy, loner heroes, and muting the hero's compassion. Really, he is great at underplaying this. John Riddick is just more of an updated gangsta version of John Rambo. Diesel has a great voice, and is in awesome shape to perform the fighting sequences. Colm Feore is a formidable adversary as Lord Marshall. Judi Dench, who is great in whatever role she plays, must have been well compensated for Aereon, because she does not have much to do in this movie. The only other standout is Alexa Davalos as Kyra. She is beautiful, strong, athletic, and full of rage. Her Kyra is a great foil to Riddick; thus, serving to humanize his character. I enjoyed "The Chronicles of Riddick" and admire the star power of Vin Diesel. "Riddick" looks to be a movie franchise. It would be great if Twohy in the sequel expands and deepens the character, instead of just amping up the action. Vin Diesel is suited for these kinds of movies (I really would not like see him in a romantic comedy); however, he might select more challenging roles and movies that capitalize on his charisma, and develop his range and power. He is already a movie star. I also think he can be a powerful actor.

I am not sure why this movie caught to much bad press. It is a very very solid sci-fi/action movie. Its completely different from the first one but in a good way. Pitch Black was sci-fi/horror not action. The action sequences in this are amazing as well as the fight sequences. Vin Diesel was born to play this character like Arnold to the Terminator. The special effects, fights and action make this movie a balls to the wall fun flick. If you have not seen it because of all the nay sayers, I say hogwash, wow never thought i would use hogwash in a sentence. I've seen this one three times now with different people and everyone who sees it ends up really liking it and asking themselves why they haven't seen it before this. Check this one out for certain.

I am a dead keen good scifi fan and I love this movie. Of course its a bit bloated, bombastic, and it has vin diesel in it (you can almost hear him saying to the director "film my jumping over this while i flex like crazy....). However it has some great actors in it - Judi Dench (?!), Tandi Newton, Colm Feore, Linus Roache, and NZ's own Karl Urban. But the great thing about this movie, is that its not afraid to take on a big subject - a race of inter-planetary "World Eaters", who, if they cannot convert you, will kill you. The effects are utterly superb - the sunrise on the planet Crematoria is a highlight, and is the bad guys invasion on Helion Prime. What I really love about this movie is the risks taken with the technology - which I havent seen in any other scifi - the "ion trails" left be slowly rotating space-craft, the "lensers" used by the bad guys to find people, the fact that craft use craft radiating black swirls of ant-matter to hover and move around, the bad guys flying citadels, the bad guy leader's powers (after he has seen the under-verse), and the way that soldiers are teleported to a planets surface. Great care has been taken with the tech, as well as the whole background and story of this universe. Quite frankly, this film is sadly underrated, and far more interesting that its quite sparse and one-note prequel and sequel.

The only reason I went to see this film is that I read another review on IMDB stating that it wasn't great, but it was better than Hellboy or Van Helsing. It's true that it wasn't great, but neither was it any better than either of those other two films. After having seen it, I'd agree with another reviewer here, comparing it to a cross of Conan, Battlefield Earth, and XXX (or some other third film that I'm not recalling correctly).The combat sequences are hard to follow, reminding me of cartoon fights, where the combatants are hidden in a cloud of smoke, with fists and feet and stars flying around inside the cloud, and you don't know what's happening exactly, or who's winning, but by god you know there's a fight taking place, and once the dust settles, then you see who's come out on top.And there's certainly a suspension of disbelief called for when watching any action or science fiction film, but this doesn't mean you have to believe that characters can swim through hot lava. Not that this film had anything quite that ridiculous, but when you're having your heroes running around in minus 300 degree weather wearing only t-shirts, it's insulting to ask the audience to believe that they'd be able to make it more than a hundred yards before going into catatonic shock. I'd have warned of a spoiler there, but thought it better that you know this before going in.This ridiculous movie had me in stitches, and despite there being a full theater, and my normal aversion to creating a nuisance unless drunk, I couldn't help but cough out a pseudo-stifled "b*llsh*t" when Riddick managed to "dodge" the 700 degree wave of flames created by the rising sun, only to hide in the miraculous shade of this planet where apparently there's a 600 degree difference between shade and sunshine. Imagine that on Earth, eh? I was laughing out loud for most of the last third of the movie.If you want to see a very bad movie that lends itself well to ridicule, and you're entertained by such things, I highly recommend seeing this. Take some drugs or alcohol with you to enhance the experience.

I really like the first Riddick movie Pitch Black. I watch it at least once a year. One of the things that I like about it is its simplicity when it comes to plot and the fact that over time you come to care about the murderer Riddick. The perfect unwilling hero with a nice character arc.So, now we have the sequel. It does not have a simple plot in the same way as Pitch Black. There are Necromongers, mercs, prison planets, elementals(?) and so on and so on. I honestly think that a follow up to Pitch Black should have had another set up/structure. My favourite part in The Chronicles of Riddick is the scenes where Riddick, Kyra and their fellow prisoners run across the surface of Crematoria, staying away from both the cold and the deadly heat of the sunrise. I like it because it is in many ways similar to the pitch black scenes in Pitch Black. The scenes have the same feeling and the same structure, but the Chronicles... scenes are different enough from the Pitch Black scenes to still be interesting.As I said before, a follow up to Pitch Black should have had another set up/structure. I would certainly have preferred a much more simple plot. Perhaps a movie that *focused* on getting Jack/Kyra away from Crematoria.However, that is not what The Chronicles of Riddick is. It is a big movie with big ideas. Sometimes it's too pompous for its own good and some lines are absolutely cringe-worthy and silly. But I must say that I was entertained almost all the time, so I can't say I'm very disappointed. I just think a smaller movie could have been so much better.As for the acting, Judi Dench doesn't have to do very much and I can't say I'm very impressed with what she does do. Not that she's bad. Thandie Newton does a rather good Lady Macbeth-like character. Alexa Davalos is great as Kyra. She really kicked some ass and looked cool while doing it. And Vin Diesel... He is Riddick. I know he's probably not a very good actor, but he was made to play Riddick, I tell you.So, this one gets a 6 out of 10 for the entertainment value.

Chronicles of Riddick, which I just got back from seeing was perhaps one of the worst movies I've ever seen, and this is coming from someone who loves Science Fiction a great deal. This movie was horrible, it made no sense, and then when things started to make a little sense it didn't make the plot any better. Vin Disel can act... as himself, which means the way he always acts-- as the near silent tough guy. I found him much more believable in the Fast and the Furious, and much more laughable in this movie.There were more cheesy lines in this movie than an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie and Matrix: Revolutions put together. It made me realize why, exactly, we accompany other people to the movies for... to groan together when a movie becomes too unbearable to stand. The characters, all of them, were wooden and cardboard and talked in stilted monosyllable sentences. It was like watching a cruel parody of a great epic like "Lord of the Rings" gone horribly wrong. The special effects and camera work of the movie does little to save it, but it was at least something to focus on when I couldn't stand the acting (or lack of acting) anymore. There were some really disorientating fight scenes where the use of strobe lights was way overdone and headache inducing.Any feminist who watches this movie will be blown away by the absurd amount of machismo in this... men posture and posture more, while the women cower in fear and wait to be saved. A minor exception is a bounty hunter girl who is featured along with the rest of her nameless crew. Dame Vaako is put in her place early by a man saying exactly that, but proves herself to be, well, a little more than a sex object as she starts to convince Vaako to overthrow the throne with her. Yay, stereotypical evil woman in tightfitting clothing. That look like they hurt for that matter. Kyra made even less sense, as in the beautiful long haired acrobatic girl who can apparently take care of herself, then still needs Riddick to come save her at least three times in the movie. Was there anything in this movie that wasn't stereotypical? *yawns* The ending, which was an ending I actually quite enjoyed, I was already so jaded by the rest of the movie to care much. In conclusion this is a horribly written, horribly constructed, disjointed light show with stilted dialogue and wooden performances. If you must watch this movie watch it for the few times that the cinematography breaks out of headache inducing mode and actually shines, as well as some of the special effects, because you aren't going to get much else out of Chronicles of Riddick.