A very popular girl named Jessica(Rachel McAdams)accidently switches body with a man who is also a criminal(Rob Schneider)because of a pair of magical earrings. Now Jessica is trapped in a man's body and along with her best friend April(Anna Faris)she must find her body before it's too late but on the good side, Jessica learns a lot about herself, her family and her friends that she did not know before. I didn't have any high expectations for this movie but surprisingly it wasn't so bad and it had a few very funny moments. Oh, and by the way, Anna Faris is the real hot chick in this movie! Anyways, I would give The Hot Chick 6.5/10.

Another movie not properly appreciated by people taking comedy movies too seriously in this film starring Rob Schniedor. The film is extremely funny and shows movies with stupid plots can be pretty good. The story is about a girl who gets a dose of reality when she gets transferred into a mans body. The story is very good and good performances from all the actors make this movie a very enjoyable experience. The movie is definitely light but so is a lot of other stuff. Fans of Rob Schneider and Adam Sandler will enjoy this movie as it is funny, witty and overall a good movie. Overall watch this movie and you will not be disappointed. I rate this movie 64%.

Jessica Spencer (Rachel McAdams) is a mean-girl cheerleader captain. She and her friends April (Anna Faris), Lulu (Alexandra Holden) and Keecia/Ling Ling (Maritza Murray) rule the school. Jessica steals a pair of ancient magical earrings. She drops one of the earrings which is picked up by ugly thief Clive (Rob Schneider). They both put on an earring and their bodies get switched. Jessica convinces her friends but struggles to figure out her new body.The movie lucked out by having Rachel McAdams as mean girl Jessica. It doesn't take full advantage of the unforeseen advantage. Rachel playing a man is hilarious. She's much funnier than Rob Schneider. Rob is doing his stupid idiocy which is fine. Rachel comes in and steals the movie every time. It's the disappointment of what this movie could have been.

I enjoyed "The Hot Chick."  What can I say, it is a guilty pleasure.  When I went to see it I figure it may be amusing but I found myself laughing quite often during the movie.  Rob Schneider was very good in the role of the female who ends up in the body of an older man.  Anne Faris and Rachel McAdams are quite good in the supporting roles.

Another movie bringing the magick of the ancient times to today, unfortunately it does not meet up with the recent productions. This movie will provide you with entertainment if you do not want to think while watching a movie, in a coma, or otherwise catatonic. While this movie does have some messages throughout, and there are some funny moments, too, but none of these save the movie.The cinematography was poorly done and while watching this movie I noticed scenes where the lighting showed absolutely nothing. This really needed work. The script seemed like it was written by someone with penis envy (sorry Rob Schneider) and those were some of the best lines.I was completely disappointed by the acting in this movie. Though "Booger" (Matt Weinberg), Jessica Spencer's (Rachel McAdams) brother, was wonderful as her cross-dressing sibling and the only shinning star in this movie. As for Rob Schneider I realize that playing the part of a high school cheerleader is a tough act, but he does not pull it off at all. The rest of the cast is very much lacking, as well, showing little enthusiasm and they appear to have no direction whatsoever.After switching bodies with a skanky male thief via ancient magickal earrings, Jessica finds herself unable to wear her clothes ~! *what WILL she DO?!* The race against time begins and Rob Schneider as "Jessica" must find a way to get her body back. This is where those pre-mentioned messages (however ambiguous) come through. This and the constant suggestions on where to hide your weed by Adam Sandler raise this movie, if only slightly. This film will either make you laugh a lot or make you wonder what was the point? This movie gets 3 carrots.

This movie is hilarious but it's definitely problematic. Multiple homophobic comments. Fatphobia. Misogyny. Racism. But still very funny for having being made in 2002. A freaky Friday of sorts. I highly recommend if you can understand that it's still very problematic but has its merits. Anna Faris is especially hysterical in this role and Rachel McAdams is fantastic at the dual roles. Rob Schneider is, of course, a gem. Plus Ashlee Simpson has a small part. The younger brother is definitely gay but the dad is a disgusting pig so there's that. Also Jan from the office is the mom. And that lady Ross dated that was in college. Overall a fantastic cast.

The frustrating part of this movie is the benefit of hindsight knowing what could have been. 20 years later and Rachel McAdams is a far bigger star than Rob Schneider. She is the best part of the movie until she switches bodies and is gone almost completely from the film. The first 20 minutes when it's all on her is far better than anything else in the movie. I think the film would have been far better if we stuck with Rachel isn't of Rob for the whole movie and not a forgettable, lazy comedy vehicle for Adam Sandler's friend which it turned out to be.

I just saw this movie and I really liked it. It is funny, and yes, painful at times. But it has an interesting message - there is a scene where Jessica's little brother Booger is running after the family in the red high heels. Does his parents have a fit? No. His dad says, "if you are going to wear those, you better learn to run in them." Accepting and warning at the same time. You also notice at the end of the movie that the girls that were enemies at the beginning of the movie, have become friends by the end. They overcome their differences, work together, and resolve a problem.This is a good movie, and I recommend it. Not every film you watch has to be Oscar level. Entertainment and education can come in many forms.

People who hate this movie were probably in a really bad mood or offended, perhaps because the character in the movie being mocked portrayed them, or something... I don't know, but seriously, this movie isn't bad! I really had a good time watching this movie. It actually made me laugh quite a bit. Even though most scenes -- especially in this type of genre -- seemed forced, it still worked well. Rob Schneider really did a great job acting as a "girl trapped in a guy's body"; as absurd as the concept sounds, he actually made it pretty believable. I also liked Anna Faris in this movie -- yeah, even though it was yet again, her typical ditsy blonde role, it worked. She made a lot of the scenes funnier, and she looked "hot" on the screen too (not a bias opinion, seriously).Now, I'm not the type who's always interested in these kinds of movies, but I was in one of those mood where I would give "movies like this" -- judging from the cover -- a chance. And well, I'm glad I watched it.This movie wasn't just about some guy acting like a girl and expect the audience to enjoy it -- it actually had a great story affecting other characters and family.I'm a bit surprised this was rated PG-13, since there's a lot of sexual references. So if you easily get offended hearing the word "penis" then this movie isn't for you. Obviously, this is not a movie to watch with a family! But a good laughter fun with your friends, or even watching it alone if you're old enough. Hey, this is also a great movie to watch after you see a scary horror movie and can't go to sleep! This movie should cheer you right back up.Great soundtrack too. One song in this movie sounded like a major rip off of Dave Matthews Band; I got a kick out of that. Don't stress over it, it's a fun movie! It's like an adult version of Freaky Friday, but funnier.

What is funny, that is a matter of opinion , and is harder to make than a action film.  A car blows up, and you got and action film, use TJ Hooker as an example.  Comedy, a guy slips on a banana and it could either be sad, or funny.  Much harder to do!  A friend at the post office wanted me to go to the comedy club on amateur night, I lost my nerve, like the banana one does not know if it is going be sad instead of funny and bomb.  Mr S in this movie could have easily bombed, it is hard to the hot chick, for a guy to pull this off shows talent.  Adam S had his influence with his over the top style.  Either you like this style or not, I find with that comedy, which I love, its material either ages well or dies.  Ie OJ type jokes.  The fight scene is a classic, but I found the father a little hard to take, but who's parents arn't.  In the end, if Political Correctness went its course the world would lose this luaghter, and levity.  What a shame, if the I just smelled poo loking face people with grudges decided what is funny, we never would be able poke fun at each other, and laugh with not at each other. This movie is full of stero types that make fun and levity about ourselves, which brings us together.  I find people who can laugh at ones self, and bad situation can deal better with life, and I see a bit of this in The Hot Chick. 7 out of 10.

"The Hot Chick" is an American English-language film from 2002, so this one has its 15th anniversary this year already. The writer and director is Tom Brady (not the famous athlete obviously) and for him, it is definitely the most known work of his career so far. This may also be the case for lead actor Rob Schneider, who is also a co-writer here and it is not the only occasion he worked together with Brady. Schneider certainly was a bigger star back then than he is today, but I believe he did a good job overall and he is certainly not less talented than the blockbuster comedy lead actors of the 2010s. This does not refer to Adam Sandler who I liked as well and who has a small cameo in here in two scenes. He's a good friend of Schneider and executive producer of this 105-minute movie. This duration includes the credits though, so it is almost 10 minutes shorter in fact. The good news is that the script and Schneider's performance are good enough for the film to never drag despite the fairly long runtime for a comedy movie. The female lead is played by Rachel McAdams, but she is really only lead in terms of the plot as she almost disappears completely around the 20-minute mark. Maybe the young Anna Faris has even more screen time than McAdams here. But this is no surprise because McAdams was not famous back then yet. It's telling that the credits state that this film is introducing her to audiences and this was still before her roles in very famous films like "Mean Girls" and "The Notebook". But this one here is still her breakthrough movie somehow and I must say that when she was on screen she was perhaps the best aspect of the film, not just because the title fits her very well.One of the biggest strengths of the film is that it basically never takes itself too seriously. Even in the more serious moments, it is all about character developments and they manage to make them look relatively light luckily. The film never tries to teach audiences something important and that's really perfect this way because otherwise the film could have gone wrong easily. But it succeeds. There are some pretty funny moments and the makers did a good job I believe in using the comedy to make people ignore some of the less realistic plot developments. Then again, it is all good as the core plot here about a crook changing bodies with a high school student is extremely absurd already. It is a parallel to a Lindsay Lohan movie, but not about mother and daughter this time and also not about lovers/spouses like in a recent German film where characters are switching bodies as well. So it is a bit of a new idea, especially for when the film was made. Of course, not all the comedy is working, but that is okay as it is no perfect film of course. Everybody will like or dislike certain scenes for subjective reasons. I personally disliked the fart humor scenes and I must say I was a bit disappointed Oscar nominee O'Keefe got such weak material here as his scenes are among the worst the film has to offer and he is a much better actor than he can show in here. But yeah, it's just subjective. Robert Davi (who plays one of my very favorite Bond villains) was wasted too unfortunately. But these are just minor letdowns. The biggest disappointment for me perhaps was that the focus after the body switch was 90% Schneider and 10% McAdams, maybe an even bigger gap and I would have loved to see a more balanced proportion. But like I said, McAdams wasn't a star yet back then, far away from the days of being the female lead on "True Detective" and an Oscar nominee, so it's not too uncommon. And storywise, it actually makes sense because the high school student's life is far more interesting and entertaining than the crook's probably relatively lonesome life that may have added too much seriousness to the film. So overall, they probably made the right decisions apart from wasting a couple really talented actors here. I recommend the watch and I believe this is one of the best comedies of 2002. Don't be fooled by the surprisingly low rating. It's a fun movie and has lots of guilty pleasure potential. Watch it!

...if you're 16 and female.  "The Hot Chick" sets up a premise having to do with a punk dude who unexpectedly has his body switched with a hot chick via some hokey spell and then milks it and milks it and milks it.   Faris brings her perpetually vacuous persona from the "Scary Movie" movies and easily upstages protag Schneider who gets most of the attention as he struggles with the girl in the guy's body thing which never really clicks. The result is a critically panned doggie which is crude, silly, lively, lacking creative substance, and something only a teenager could love. (C)