The Spiderwick Chronicles is based upon the books of the same name by Tony DeTerlizzi and Holly Black. The film centers around a mother and her three children who move into a mysterious and creepy new house pretty much in the middle of nowhere. The one son Jared who is the main character in the film, finds a book written by the previous owner of the house and Jared soon discovers that this is a magical yet very dangerous book that a lot of goblins and little creatures are after, but with the help of his twin brother, his older sister and some friendly creatures he gets the book to safety and also protects himself and his family from the evil monsters that want the book to do harm. Ever since The Lord Of The Rings and Harry Potter films have done so well, filmmakers are taking other fantasy books and turning them into feature films as well. The majority of them that have been released over the past few years I have not seen because for one thing they did not look appealing to me at all and also because of bad word of mouth and reviews. I wasn't sure what I would think of The Spiderwick Chronicles, but to my surprise I thought it was pretty good. The film is aimed at a family audience even though some young children might be afraid of some scenes, but this is a film that I think kids will absolutely love and there is enough here for the grownups as well. The story sounds simple enough, but it is enhanced by a lot of creative creatures and imaginative things going on. The young cast each did their own and carried the film and even though I don't usually like computer generated effects in films, I didn't feel it was overdone here just for the sake of showing what today's new wonderful technology can do and I really appreciated that the film didn't go overboard with that. The running time moves along fairly briskly and the film is involving and interesting from the start and keeps it's energy and charm throughout the running time. There were a few repeated story patterns and clichés in the script, but there were also a lot of surprises and new takes on things, so that can be forgiven. When looking at a film like this at a child you would like the magic, imagination and the story that is woven in front of you with interesting characters, environments and a grand sense of storytelling that can make the make believe into a fun and entertaining film. This is all captured very well here and works as a fairy tale for kids 8 to whatever age. A creative enough story helped by good film-making and an eye for what kids and adults love about these movies make this film a generally good and above average family fantasy film of the past few years.

Upon moving into the run-down Spiderwick Estate with their mother, twin brothers Jared and Simon Grace, along with their sister Mallory, find themselves pulled into an alternate world full of faeries and other creatures.I've made up a theory: People who have read books that are turned into movies will be more harsh to judge the films unlike people who see movies without reading the book. I think this theory is right. I was disappointed by Harry Potter 5 at first, but watching it now for a year later and nearly forgetting about the book, I found it the best in the series.The same might as well go with this film. I was disappointed. If you don't know, this film is based on 5 books. However, the movie ignores the 4th book, which is probably because of budget issues and/or limited running time. Still, I can't help but complain. There could've been more creative production designs to see, more action, and more magical creatures.Apart from that, I felt that the film was well put together, especially the fact that they skipped a lot in the books. The special effects are very good, as well as the action scenes. I also may feel this film pushed the PG rating. It certainly is not as intense as Harry Potter 3 but there might be about 2 to 3 scenes that could make this film a PG-13 rating.The performances here are decent, although not captivating. The film may be a bit fast paced, if you asked me. Overall, this is a decent adaption to another fantasy book. If you have read the books, you might be disappointed. If you have not, enjoy it.

I truly wasn't expecting much from this movie goon in but it was the only family movie available to watch with my 5 and 3 year old. I figured that because it wasn't a cartoon I'd have to deal with squirming bottoms and talking. But to my amazement the movie was not only entertaining to both of my boys (NO SQUIRMING!!!) both my husband and I loved it. My husband wouldn't even get a refill on the popcorn----and believe me that doesn't happen often!!!! I have nothing negative to say about the film. Some might think it's a little too scarry for younger kids but neither one of mine were scarred. A couple of times I had to explain some things to my 5 year old. The head goblin is kind of scarry looking; but not too bad.

First, the good parts. Amazing special effects, of course. They double cast Freddie Highmore flawlessly, so much that people who didn't know it were shocked. Additionally, my kids read the books and said it was an impressive adaptation of all five (!) of the books. Having not read them myself, the movie still felt coherent without missing any parts.I can't recommend it highly, on the basis of its being far too violent, and sometimes downright gory. Now, I'm not a puritan; I like horror movies and my family likes action movies. But the violence was a little too close-up and the monsters too real for a movie described as a family film. We saw close-ups of cut-open eyes and exploded heads. My ten year old walked away disturbed and my three year old (I thought it would be okay by the trailers) spent most of the time with his head underneath my coat. This movie should have been PG-13.Action can be good, even thrilling. Star Wars, Harry Potter, and Narnia all had great family friendly action scenes. The difference, I realized after thinking about it, is that all of the action in this movie was desperate. Not thrilling, just outnumbered, and kind of awful. When the good guys do win, it's sudden and almost random, so you feel less like cheering and more like just unclenching your teeth, glad that it's over.In addition, the non-action scenes weren't fun either. The dialogue outside the action scenes was almost entirely the family being angry at each other. There may be two laughs in the whole movie. Even the "good" magical creatures had a kind of sinister look to them. There wasn't a lot to *enjoy* here. You may walk out of the theater saying the movie was "amazing" or "exciting," but you won't be able to say that it was "fun."

Went to a UK preview tonight and this completely took me by surprise. A brilliant fantasy adventure which retains it's dignity and doesn't sell out for a cute Disney style box office attack.The issues in it were quite good and realistic and it wasn't necessarily 'happy ever after' in the end. The scripting and the style of the piece reminded me of 'The Princess Bride'- although this is more of an action adventure than a comedy.Well worth seeing, and there doesn't seem to have been much 'hollywood tailoring' such as there was with the Golden compass and Narnia...As to the monsters / fairies- they were very well done indeed, quite believable considering they were computer generated.Well worth seeing, but I have the feeling it won't get as much publicity as the usual run of the mill children's movie...Why do I keep saying children's movie when I am 34?

John Sayles has never let me down before. But he surely has this time with this wildly tepid movie. I suppose there are so many child-magic "save the world" movies because kids are really easy to please. But you have to have several things for these to work. You have to have charming kids. You need to have some unique imagination in the creatures or the forces they operate under. And you need to have basic narrative shape to the thing.This has none of that. Now this may just be my experience, because I made the mistake of seeing it in Imax, and when things get bigger you expect the spaces to be filled. This is gremlins meets Potter kids lite.I went to it, in fact blew most of a day to get to it, because of Sayles. His cinematics are a bit stagebound for my tastes, but knows how to shape things so that you go somewhere. Waters, the director has done some poor work recently, but his first film (House of Yes) really impressed me. That was based on a play and used the same stagecraft preferred by Sayles. So I thought we'd get something both tasty and nourishing.Alas, neither. What do parents think? That you can scrimp on children's imagination and narrative sense and not have them suffer?I suppose a bright parent could say that the story was about stealing a book with lessons in it, and the book was destroyed.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3: You can find something better to do with this part of your life.

The Spiderwick chronicles is a fun family friendly fantasy thriller of sorts. A family moves into an old home and discover a mysterious book about magical creatures. They soon realize these creatures are real and are forced to defend their home from goblins trying to steal the book. The cgi is pretty good and the monsters aren't too scary. The acting is good from the kids, Freddie highmore plays both twin brothers and does a fair job. Cute movie, storyline is simple, and the ending is wholesome.

My two boys (12 and 9) saw this movie yesterday and honestly, we truly enjoyed it, but to say that it follows the adventures of the Spiderwick book series is a bit of a leap. Actually a huge leap. After the movie my boys and I wondered if Holly and Tony (creators of Spiderwick series) were disappointed in what was created in the Spidewick name. We know that movies cannot follow books completely because of the expenses involved with film making, but the folks who made the Series of Unfortunate Events movie did a nicer job changing the story line to merge the first three books and keep the essence of the story alive. Spiderwick is a fun film, (and yeah, younger viewers will be creeped out, so be cautious about that) but true lovers of the Spiderwick book series will be frustrated by the many, many changes.One more thing... the book series is creepier than the movie. The movie monsters are a bit sillier, more like muppets. In the book they are much scarier.

I know, I know, Spiderwick is the name of the guy who wrote the book, but still, I was expecting a spider of some sort within this strange fantasy tale. Was not all bad, but I can also see why this went no further than the one movie as it is really nothing all that special. Just seems more like it should have been a pilot for a television movie rather than a feature length film, maybe even a Netflix series. Some things just are not as good when transcribed from book to film and that may be the case here too.The story has a mother and her children moving into a house because they cannot afford to live in New York anymore and as usual they somehow end up moving into what is essentially a mansion. Happens all the time in films and books and it is a bit of a tired trope. "Children, we cannot afford to live in this two bedroom apartment, but as luck would have it, I have access to a mansion in the middle of nowhere that will cost vastly less to live in!" Of course,there is one child who is not to keen about this, but then his brother is not exactly on his side, even though they are the same person! Then there is the sister who is annoying, but she knows fencing! cough foreshadowing cough cough. Well there is something in the house and it inadvertently leads to an upstairs secret room which houses a book that seems to have many secrets of mythical and wondrous creatures and opening seems to trigger things in motion leading to all sorts of nasty creatures looking for the book! The brother must find a way to protect the book and stop the creatures from taking the book, because there will be trouble if Mulgarath gets his hands on the book!Freddie Highmore plays duel roles in this one as both twin brothers. He is more known now as the doctor with autism in, The Good Doctor. The film also has Andrew McCarthy in a small role which is a shock cause I have not seen him in anything in years! Dude used to be in everything! Nick Nolte is also in this film; however, his voice is used way more than the actor himself, though he does appear briefly as a human in this one. All the cast do okay , but the film is so by the numbers that it is not really all that surprising.So, it was not a bad film, just a bit on the underwhelming side of things. Like I said, feels like a television pilot or something. For the most part, nearly all the action takes place around a house, but then we have this generic flying scene that does not look good to another bland locale. Just seems like this one should not have cost 90 million to make. It is not the worst movie though and has entertaining moments within, just not enough to be a really solid film.

This is another of those fantasy films that serves its purpose in that it entertains, no matter what the age. It's not among the elite in its genre, but it is a story that hooks you in by the 20-minute mark and you just go along for the ride, mainly to see how things will turn out.There is good suspense in here, enough to make adults care about what happens, not just kids. There also are some scary scenes that are probably too much for small kids, but fine for teens on up. In all, you get a good mix of horror, comedy, fantasy and drama all rolled into one odd (fantasy) story.Child acting star Freddie Highmore, who seems to get cast in a lot of these fantasies (Charlie And The Chocolate Family," "August Rush," "Arthur And The Invisibles," and "The Golden Compass") has a dual role in here, playing brothers "Jared"and "Simon Grace." Freddie is a fine actor, so no problem in that department. I hate to hear child actors, using God's name as exclamations, though, but that's not Highmore's doing. The only other annoyance is the frequent shouting with an older sister. However, once the adventure kicks into high gear, the arguing stops as the kids try to solve their major dilemma as a unit.Nick Nolte plays the big villain, "Mulgarath." but his role is surprisingly small. It's all those ugly, nasty little creatures who surround the house, who are the "bad guys." There are a number of somewhat scary scenes involving them, enough to entertain the post-pre-adolescent crowd.The star of the film isn't Freddie or the actors, or the story.....it's the special-effects, which are very good and a lot of fun to watch, from little beings to monsters to fairies to whatever. I saw this on Blu-Ray and it really looks good. All of it is very colorful and entertaining to view, making this a film fun for both kids and adults.

First, I'm surprised that most negative reviews (<5 rating) are only from viewers that know the books (or at least one), cause the movie is not good for itself. IMHO one of the biggest mistakes are the characters of the kids. I don't know the book but I can't imagine the children were introduced like this in the original in terms of character development. Whiny, hateful, aggressive, etc... and NO, the breakup of their parents doesn't explain it at all. At least not at this intensity.After the first half-hour I was really like "meeeh, don't care what happens with them". Another thing that added to that was the bad acting (but the adults were not better at all). Maybe that's a subjective matter, but I know a lot of movies with child actors and even Freddie Highmore, had seen him playing better in other movies so maybe the reason is to find in the script or directing. Then the seemingly repetitive fighting, where they could had better invest some time in developing the characters, story or the world about the spiderwicks (I read in the commentaries there are five books, so source material shouldn't have been the problem). All in all, the beginning (about the book = 1P) and a few good new ideas here and there (another point) are the only reasons for me to give it 3/10 in the end.