I am a long time fan of the old theatre magicians and have been fascinated by the wave of spiritualism that swept both continents around the turn of the last century. This movie plays off those real life happenings, with the added twist of court and political intrigue. The movie is lush - as a period piece should be - with terrific performances from a true ensemble cast. Edward Norton has the charismatic gaze that makes you believe in every thing he does. Jennifer Biel is tragic and compelling as a woman trapped by society and dubious duty. Paul Giamatti - who seems to be in every other movie these days - is wonderful as a conflicted man unsure of whom he serves. Rufus Sewell, as the Crown Prince Leopold, is that man, and he embodies the boo-hiss villain. Vain and driven, he is larger than life and not one to cross, as the illusionist comes to find out. The music of Philip Glass fits the scenes and add just the right amount of tension. Plus the horses are very old world with large hooves and a heck of a lot of presence. A compelling and beautiful film.

The Illusionist is a very entertaining movie. The beginning of the movie sets an awesome foundation for the rest of the film to work with, without making the rest of the movie predictable and pointless. Although the basic story of boy gets girl, boy loses girl may not be original, the way the plot is presented with the excellent magical imagery keeps one interested in Edward Norton's character. My only complaint would be that the movie needs a little editing towards the end as the creators seem to show basically the same scene over and over in an attempt to drive home Norton's character's emotional distress. Unfortunately, this gets a little monotonous for viewers. Still, Norton, Sewell, Giamatti (and surprisingly Biel) provide excellent performances that, along with the beautiful cinematography, make a great movie.

And Edward Norton is absolutely right. Nothing in this movie is what it seems. I was floored by the end of this movie. This was a wonderful job by everyone, actors and director. I couldn't believe how it ended, I wanted to stand up and clap at the end because of how beautifully it was done. This movie really grows on you. In the beginning I wasn't really impressed, but by the end I was completely convinced that this was a real work of art. The acting was great. Norton, Biel, and Giamatti all did tremendous jobs in my opinion. This is the best fictional biography I have ever seen. This Eisenheim character seems like a real person and not someone based on a short story. Norton is slowly becoming one of my favorite actors, the guy has more range than I've seen from anyone in a while. He's always playing different characters and he always does a very good job. I think everyone should go and see this movie, it won't let you down.

This movie was stunning in many aspects. Visually in terms of locations, inside and out, there was great consistency and a nothing seemed strained. The story weaved fluidly through these locations and seemed to make the locales a vital part of the story. Ed Norton was mesmerizing, a superb performance that allowed the story to unfold seemingly at his discretion. Jess Biel was very believable and stunningly beautiful. Paul Giamatti (sp) played an admirable role and took the viewer by surprise in many elements of the story. The story was fresh and imaginative, very intriguing. Not as predictable as you would think. We saw this at a Sundance screening and the entire theater of 500+ seats was full and when the movie was over all you could hear was excited and happy chatter, lots of applause as well. Director came out for a Q&A after and was very amiable in answering questions. Highly recommended!!!

I went to this see this film knowing only the names of the actors, having seen no trailers and having read no reviews. It is one of the best movies I've seen in years! I was completely captivated, as were almost all of the others in the audience, judging by the loud applause. I love magic shows and was delighted by the authentic look of Eisenheim's illusions performed on a stage having at most a chair and a table, lit by limelights. Other reviewers have described better than I the beautiful scenery, music, visuals, and acting and have given the movie high marks..Then there are the reviewers who post spoilers and others who claim to have "figured it out" way before the end and therefore give it low scores. They are kin to those in a magicians audience who cannot appreciate the illusion but spend all their time guessing how the trick is done and must tell everyone they know the secret. Ignore them! Go see the movie and be drawn in to a fascinating story!

Although I spotted the inevitable conclusion coming about half way through the film (Jessica Biel and Ed Norton are discussing a possible future together; her pragmatic analysis of what would need to take place set off alarm bells for me that ultimately proved my instincts correct), it is a testament to the film that I was still engaged enough to see how all of the pieces in the story would fall into place. 'The Illusionist' is a fairly decent example of a script that sets up a certain number of expectations and then toys with the outcomes before knocking them all down like dominoes.There are three main reasons to watch 'The Illusionist.' The first reason is that the script isn't too bad. I was with a group of friends. Two of us guessed correctly how the film was going to develop. The other five were quite surprised by the film's ending. None of us were disappointed and the film got an ovation from the audience when it was over. I would describe 'The Illusionist' as a mystery or a puzzle. If you like films that make the grey matter between your ears do a little work, you might just find yourself pleasantly surprised -- that said, there isn't anything so taxing here as to make the film overly complex or convoluted.The second reason to watch this film is the involvement of Ricky Jay. He's in the credits for consultation and as one of the best magicians working today in Hollywood, it is worth your time to take a look at the film to see some of his influence. I'll be interested when this comes out on DVD to find out the degree of involvement. If the producers were smart, they probably listened a lot to a man who is in the Guiness book of World Records for his use of playing cards as weapons! My third reason to recommend 'The Illusionist' is some excellent work from the three main male leads: Paul Giamatti, Ed Norton and Rufus Sewell. As a qualifier, let me add that Jessica Biel does a pretty good job too -- I just found that the energy and zeal with which her male counterparts performed ate up the screen and left her adrift. There's a little joke in there you might find funny after you've watched the film. Ed Norton is very controlled and restrained here, Rufus Sewell seems to relish every scene he's in with villainous delight and Paul Giamatti shines as the police inspector with a taste for amateur magic. Giamatti has a gift for facial expressions and, as a friend of mine hilariously put it, in his final scene his facial expression is 'six degrees of crazy.' I love that! These are three compelling performances and although you might see your way through the contrivances of the script, the good performances should be more than enough to keep you entertained.'The Illusionist' isn't bad. A good little mystery with some nice acting all around.

I just saw this wonderful film at the San Francisco Film Festival as a surprise entry. Beautifully shot and realized, it keeps you guessing until the end as to the true outcome. It was throughly entertaining and innovative. This movie has it all: romance, suspense, star crossed lovers and supernatural illusions. Edward Norton is perfectly cast as Eisenheim The Illusionist. His accent flowed seamlessly and he simply disappeared into the role. The real revelation to me was none other than Paul Giamatti. Paul's richly accented role was not altogether unlike Tommy Lee Jones' role in The Fugitive. I found his scenes with Norton full of respect and begrudging admiration. It was an absolute joy to see these two pros at work. I will definitely be paying to see this one again when it's released theatrically.

I love movies of all type for different reasons. Action movies to become stimulated physically, comedies to laugh my troubles away, suspense to sit on the edge of my seat. But mostly, I attend movies to escape from a humdrum and dangerous world. "The Illusionist" is the ultimate in escape movies. It is gripping from he opening scene and the grip lasts until the final realization. The story is masterfully crafted and the screenplay intriguing. The special effects and illusions are entertainment enough. But all of this surrounded in the backdrop of the story, it's movement from one idea to another is an added treat. First there is the marvelous acting of all the major actors, surrounded by great support. The cinematography and music are awesome. This movie is filled with entertainment, suspense, romance, sensuality tastefully done, treachery and surprises. I have not been so entranced by a movie since the first Banderas Zorro movie. I didn't look at my watch once and the one hour and forty-five minutes flew by in delight. I want to see this movie over and over again. and I will still marvel at its perfection. You all must go and see it.

Hats off to director Neil Burger. He bit off a big challenge with The Illusionist, and he pulled it off admirably. This is a very liberal adaptation of a Steven Millhauser story about a magician in Victorian era in Vienna. Shot entirely in the Czech Republic at gorgeously befitting locations, this is a beautifully made period piece, complete with genuine turn-of-the-century illusions, a wonderful soundtrack, lovely cinematography and an intriguing story.Edward Norton plays Eisenheim, the magician who lost his first love as a young boy because they were separated by classes, but years later when he is touring Vienna rediscovers her in the form of Princess Sophie (Jessica Beil). Unfortunately, Sophie is engaged to be married to the unseemly Prince Leopold (Rufus Sewell), who immediately takes a dislike to Eisenheim, chiefly because he fails to debunk his illusions. Prince Leopold, not one to do his own dirty work, relies upon Chief Inspector Uhl (Paul Giamatti) to handle Eisenheim.Edward Norton is great as Eisenheim. (That shouldn't be surprising as he's turned in some truly remarkable performances in the past—Fight Club, American History XXX, Rounders and The Score.) And of course Paul Giamatti is excellent as well, although his role is something of a departure for him. But perhaps most surprising is Biel, who is not only radiantly beautiful in this movie, but shows surprising talent as well, and holds her screen presence toe to toe with Norton.Burger has managed to pull off really a remarkable film. The plot moves along steadily. There is also a very consistent tonality--a foreboding dreariness that perfectly matches the subject matter and the period. (In the same way that David Lynch did with The Elephant Man.) The illusions are captivating and almost believable. The love story is touching. And Eisenheim is a compelling and sympathetic hero, blessed with such unconventionally heroic talents that the entire movie feels fresh and alive.

Edward Norton's characterization of the title character provides a great deal of the credibility for this highly romantic mystery film. The illusionist, Eisenheim, is a confident, arrogant man who reserves and guards his emotions for the things he really loves. His self-assuredness does not derive from insecurity or some other psychological weakness, but from his achievement of perfecting his skills to an extremely high level of mastery. He creates magic that baffles the mind and only he fully understands the science behind his illusions.Overall "The Illusionist" is very enjoyable. It is also unsatisfying. That is caused by cliques in the plot and in the behavior of the characters. It is sometimes all too clear what will happen, and the characters sometimes do things that contradict their otherwise insightful personalities."The Illusionist" is a good looking film, with good performances and smooth direction. The magic is especially enjoyable, and the mystery, though not imponderable, is enticing.

I loved this movie. It's just that simple. I've seen it several times and the charm never wears off. Yes, it ultimately is a 'feel good movie', but is that so wrong? It keeps you mesmerized until the very last scene. This film is destined to be a classic.As I read some of the other comments about this movie on IMDb, I realize that cynicism can easily get in the way of just enjoying a movie for what it is. This is a magnificent film! Edward Norton and Paul Giametti are terrific and so is the rest of the cast. The cinematography was stunning. The script was superb. The direction was outstanding. I really can't say anything bad about this film. I thoroughly recommend this movie! I could give it no less than a 10.

I was very much looking forward to seeing The Illusionist when it came out on DVD, as I missed its run in theatres, and with grave regret I have to say that I did not like this movie. I wanted so badly to love it, but as it turns out the ending made it impossible for me to do so.Edward Norton, in typically great form, plays Eisenheim the Illusionist, Jessica Biel plays The Duchess, Eisenhiem's love interest and fiancé to the power hungry Crown Prince(Rufus Sewell), and Paul Giamatti plays the Chief Inspector of Vienna who is in charge of trying to solve the mysteries behind the eye popping feats of Eisenheim. Every actor involved does a splendid job. The story is a love story, with betrayal and mystery, with all sorts of magical sights and sounds. It touches on the mystical/spiritual side of Eisenheim, but fails miserably at following it up with any sort of substance.The most interesting part of the film, which I bought into, hook, line and sinker right from the get go, was the fact that magic seemed possible. It seemed real. It rooted itself in the supernatural, and then failed to grow. It planted the seed of the magical orange tree in your mind and then forgot to water it.The movie forgot that it was a work of fiction, and would not allow itself to be anything but reality. It took no risks, it took no chances, it did nothing fantastical and amazing other than showing how fantastic of a let down an incredibly masterful and atmospheric movie can be when the director wimps out and decides he has to make everything explainable and real in the end. All of the hard work and obvious skill that went into making this film into a mysterious and wondrous love story was wasted by the most incredibly copped out ending I have seen in years.

Kind of a strange movie but very original and entertaining! It was a Gothic-romance period-piece drama-mystery, and quirky characters and a bizarre--or at least unusual--plot held my interest. Edward Norton's character plays an inscrutable but romantic master illusionist. But is he just a master illusionist or has he developed powers to effect the creepy conjuring of those who have passed on? (Regardless, the guy is so easy on the eyes.)Jessica Biel is beautiful and good in her role but I couldn't help thinking, "Hey, Jessica, Scarlett Johanssen called. She wants her lips back." Paul Giamatti bothered me just a tad at first because he spoke in a near-whisper and had a scruffy beard so you couldn't read his lips. He got louder and his character developed pretty darned well, thank goodness. Actually, he was fantastic (so what else is new?). The makers of this movie did the same thing the makers of Little Miss Sunshine did--made me want to see the film twice, but for different reasons: LMS because the first time I saw it, I laughed so hard I cried, and I really needed a laugh again (and got it); The Illusionist because I was like the audience for the title character's shows the first time I saw it--just kind of naive and awed and staring up at the action with my mouth hanging open. So I'll have to see it again and pay attention. Kind of like when my daughter told me to go see The Sixth Sense again and pay attention to what Bruce Willis's character was wearing. (Plot-wise, this is unrelated, folks--just a movie watcher's analogy.)At first, the old-fashioned circle wipes seemed a little distracting, but in retrospect, they were part of the excellent movie-making decisions that created the illusion of time and place in this film. A really good story with really good art direction and really good actors, costumes and settings. Definitely worth a go-see--or two!