Top 10 comedies of all time. Enough jokes and hilarious situations to keep laughing long after the viewing.Sit back and enjoy the ride.

I just saw the first screening of the movie, and it is very worth the money you will pay for it. I was skeptical about it at first, thinking that the previews would have only the funny parts, but they are just the tip of the iceberg... Everyone hit a home run in this movie. Even Mike Tyson generated a few laughs for everyone. If you need a pick me up from a bad day, just watch this and you will definitely feel better about everything that may be going wrong in your life. I will DEFINITELY be buying this to watch over and over again once it comes out on DVD, probably even see it in theaters again. I hope you find this review helpful because this movie is definitely a must see in my opinion.

I walked into this movie a little hesitant, and man did I feel like a complete tool for doubting Todd Phillips once again.I was hesitant for quite a few reasons. One being that I was a little unimpressed with the trailer, but trust me, after you see this movie you will realize that most of the movie couldn't have possibly made it into the trailer. Another reason was the writers.... their previous works being The Ghosts of Girlfriend's Pasts and Four Christmases and Rebound. I don't know what they did between those and this but damn did they step their game up.Now, the movie is hilarious. I have become so used to the thought of the Judd Apatow gang being the only ones to make truly funny films, but I realized very quickly into this movie that I was dead wrong. I think this movie was by far ten times funnier than Pineapple Express, Forgetting Sarah Marshall, Step Brothers, etc. And I find each of those flicks truly, hilariously, funny.I remember watching Superbad the first time and thinking that that was the funniest movie ever made, when it comes to films with legitimate plots and characters, etc. And maybe Superbad and The Hangover are pretty close, but who knows....So PLEASE see this film. The audience I saw it with was laughing hysterically every five minutes at least. There is enough one-liners to quote all summer, and enough subtle jokes to laugh about later on that you didn't catch the first time.OH and by the way, if you love Old School, you will LOVE the ending. That's all I can say.

Yes, okay, it's very funny at times down right hilarious. What sets this comedy apart from others of its ilk, is a well structured script and a pace that doesn't allow any form of thinking. The chemistry between the four leads is also a plus. There is a surprising, maybe unconscious, touch of innocence in the midst of this night of debauchery that makes it palatable even charming. Bradley Cooper is coming into his own and I'm absolutely certain that he was born to play Emperor Caligula in a future Ridley Scott flick. The women, as in most films about a bunch of heterosexuals doing childish things, are treated appallingly. They are the enemy that they have to protect themselves from or just escape, run, run as fast and as far as you can. Try to find the hooker with a heart of gold, and if she looks like Heathter Graham, that much better and forget about settling down. "The Hangover" has already become the surprise hit of the summer 2009. I say, well done, it could have been worse

After much anticipation, The Hangover has finally hit theaters. Todd Phillips returns raunchier than ever with a surprisingly consistent comedy loaded with bizarre situations ensued by lots of laughter. From a live tiger in the bathroom to an abandoned baby in the closet, this movie has everything. Seriously, everything (confirmed by the credit sequence).Phillips does not shy away from his formula. The movie centers around four immature adults dumbfounded by the seemingly unexplainable result of a wild Vegas night catalyzed by the foursome's out of control bachelor party. Set the day before one of the principle character's wedding, the film is primarily seen through eyes of Doug (the groom-to-be), Alan (the lovable moron), Stu (the hopeless one), and Phil (the stud, and in many ways the leader of the pack). The director of Old School does not shy away from shock humor but embraces it, while gradually building confidence and self discovery within the characters. Overall, the film triumphs through curiosity and chemistry. Just like the main characters, we are eager to find out what happens, or what DID happen. At the same time, the strong relationship developed by the characters makes the viewer realize how much he/she cares about what ultimately happens to them. Chemistry is the secret to a good comedy; it is about time somebody shows this understanding.I don't want to reveal too much, but let me tell you this: everything does get explained in the end (except for the chicken aimlessly walking around in the hotel room, but I mean, it's a chicken). All of the actors succeeded in their roles admirably, and I wouldn't be surprised to see these guys in more lead roles. Ed Helms hasn't made me laugh this hard since The Daily Show. Seriously guys. Go watch this movie, you won't be disappointed.

I have to start by saying that my friends and I have been talking about this movie and watching the trailers for weeks, so our expectations were really high.With that being said, this movie didn't just live up to the expectations, it was one of the funniest movie I have seen in a long time. Bradley Cooper, Zach Galifianakis, and Ed Helms are all very good. Galifianakis steals the show at times. It is hilarious from the beginning. Mike Tyson brings a few laughs and Mr. Chow (Ken Jeong) is a great twist. Do yourself a favor and go see this movie, it is worth every penny. Just got out of the midnight showing and I'm going back tomorrow night.

I thought that "The Hangover" started out pretty much along the same lines as your bog-standard "grooms last night in Vegas before the wedding" scenario  with the same formula of a group of lads comprising of "cool" guys and "odd-balls"  I wasn't therefore expecting too much out of the ordinary  I was pleasantly surprised however, and I thought that the extra humorous original touches and the cast (or relative unknowns used) were above the average for this type of film  and it WAS genuinely funny in places ..Basically, an odd-ball mix of guys attend a stag do in Vegas just before the grooms wedding  events happen and the group wake up – realising that they have no recollection of the previous night and that they have "lost" the groom  a very comic "autopsy" then ensues into what happened the night before and to re-trace their steps to find out what happened  to try to get the groom to the altar on time  each time they discover a little more of what happened – they find themselves getting deeper and deeper into trouble There was also an "interesting" cameo role played by a well-known personality that added to the humour  giving it quite a twist  The film just gets funnier as it goes along  It would also be wise to stick around to watch the credits at the end as there are some very amusing pictures of the events of the stag night – don't miss them !

Obviously the movie built a great deal on the classic "Viva Ned Flanders" episode of "The Simpsons" (season 10 in 1999) which is not mentioned elsewhere. The matching in the storyline is significant, in Simpsons Homer takes Ned Flanders to Las Vegas to start enjoying life. Major points where the two pieces meet are the scene, casinos and the hangover in Las Vegas, the appearance of a tiger, Tyson, getting married to a casino employee and so on ... all must be a miraculous coincidence."The Hangover" clearly has some great jokes but it cannot keep up the same level throughout the 100 minutes therefore the moderate rating. I recommend to watch it just to cheer up but without very high expectations.

Absolutely loved this movie. The theatre was all laughs through the whole movie. Don't go expecting a cinematic masterpiece but if you are looking for out of control laughter this is your flick. The story was funny the acting was hilarious and I don't want to spoil it but the end was so funny my wife hurt her ribs (no I'm not kidding) from laughing so hard. I am going back to see this movie again. And I don't do that often, but for any guy with a sense of humour or has ever been to a bachelor party (or can't wait to go to a rockin' bachelor party) this is a must see movie.

Zach Galifianakis, Ed Helms and Bradley Cooper fall so perfectly into the circumstances of a night out without the wife/girlfriend—a bachelor party, no less—that we're all happy we're safe in the audience clucking our tongues but secretly envying every single moment (one that includes the ever watchable Heather Graham). These boys fall and fall hard, and trying to pick up the pieces of a night they strangely can't remember brought more laughs than the last time I laughed this consistently (that was "There's Something About Mary").The cast never forgets that they are actors here and not on an episode of "Jackass" as Apatow's comedies often feel. There's tight control on the dialog and we never descend into simple slapstick. Oh, there's broad humor, but we're watching terrific actors in very broad situations. The trailer is a perfect sample of what you're going to get, although it may veer into raunch perhaps a little more than the trailer hints. But it's never just sensationalism, because I can—regrettably, I confess—relate to waking up in a room with a chicken and not knowing exactly from whence it came.Galifiankis has the most unique character (well, besides a naked Chinese fellow, but you can discover that one for yourself) and he's wonderful to watch. Not everything he does comes off 100%, but when he scores, it's so far out from our own comfort zone, that when the jaws of the other characters drop, we're right there with them. Rachel Harris deserves special mention as the girlfriend who demonstrates why marriage can be so fearful.This is as tidy a script as "My Best Friend's Wedding" and just as beautifully shot. The cinematography could be pulled from any of the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce ads, and it only adds to our confidence that whatever is coming around the next corner, we don't have to worry that it will wreck all that's gone before. The makers of this little gem are as much in control as the characters are out of control, and it was joy to finally get a great farce that we're very sorry to see end. I see that "Hangover, 2" is in development, and I hope lighting strikes twice.(The standard for wedding singer has been set. Anyone want to top this?)