Ever wonder, who is Santa Claus, really?  Where does he come from, how old is he?  How in the world does he squeeze down a chimney, and how does he get in if there isn't a chimney?  What's the deal here?  Well, happily, the answers to these questions and more are finally answered, as the legend of Santa Claus comes to life as never before in `The Santa Clause,' directed by John Pasquin and starring Tim Allen.  Scott Calvin (Allen) is an executive with a toy manufacturing company, he's divorced and has a young son, Charlie (Eric Lloyd), who still believes in Santa, but is at an age at which doubt is beginning to creep into the picture.  And the fact that Charlie's mom, Laura (Wendy Crewson) has a boyfriend, Dr. Neal Miller (Judge Reinhold), who is a psychiatrist, isn't helping the situation any.  Neal, it seems, is adamant about counseling Charlie in the realities of life, which of course includes the real scoop on Santa, which doesn't go over too well with Scott. 	Then on Christmas Eve, which Charlie is spending with Scott, a strange thing happens.  There's a clatter on the roof, and Scott rushes outside to investigate, where he discovers a man in a red suit clamoring about on the roof of his two-story house.  As Scott watches, the man loses his footing and falls into the snow on the front lawn.  And to Scott's amazement, it's Santa Claus!  Or at least a guy dressed up like Santa, and he's not in very good shape at the moment.  Lying there on his back, the man hands Scott a card with instructions written on it about what to do in this particular situation.  `Put on the suit,' it says, `The reindeer will know what to do.' And when Scott looks back up at the roof, what he sees concludes what Neal would probably call an SEE (Significant Emotional Experience), and though he doesn't realize it at the moment, his life is about to change forever...	And with that, Pasquin goes on to tell the story of Scott Calvin's amazing odyssey, which puts a humorous, and at times poignant, spin on this contemporary and highly imaginative rendition of the Santa Claus story, which offers much more than merely a fresh face on an old tale.  The Santa angle has that universal appeal that will attract viewers initially, but what makes this story really accessible is the reality which lies beneath the fantasy.  The relationships examined in this film-- the whole situation with Scott, Charlie, Laura and Neal-- are quite common in our modern world, and that obstacle in the lives of these characters puts a necessary balance in the story that makes it more than just another Christmas fantasy.  It puts an edge on the sentimentality that would've been over-the-top had Scott, for example, been a happily married man with a text book family life. That would've been good for maybe a one hour T.V. special on a Tuesday night, whereas this story and the way it's presented is unique and lends itself well to full length motion picture status.	When you think of Tim Allen, you don't necessarily think in terms of Santa Claus-- his Tim Taylor, `Home Improvement' persona is simply too far-reaching (there are, in fact, some `in' jokes sprinkled subtly throughout this film, like when Scott, in Santa's workshop, picks up a toy tool belt and holds it up to himself)-- but it actually becomes a positive here, and another part of the appeal of this film.  it establishes Scott as a real person, an average guy attempting to cope with the everyday problems of everyday life.  And it keeps the core of the story grounded, which ultimately makes the fantasy work while giving it heart.  So, in retrospect, Allen was a perfect choice for the role of Scott Calvin, and in the long run this just may turn out to be one of his most memorable roles (which is somewhat ironic, as this was Allen's big screen debut), because this is certainly the kind of film that is bound to make a lot of people's annual `holiday movies to watch' list, falling into that category of films you can watch over and over again every Christmas season, like `A Christmas Story.' `Christmas Vacation,' `A Christmas Carol' and `It's A Wonderful Life.'  All films which, though certainly diverse, have at their center the spirit of Christmas along with family values and traditions, and all told in a way that enables the viewer to readily identify with the characters and the story, which is exactly what this film does.	Eric Lloyd turns in a good performance as Charlie, making his character believable while keeping him positive despite the conflicts which surround him, and Crewson and Reinhold are solid in their respective roles, as well. But in supporting roles, the standout performances come from David Krumholtz, as Bernard, Santa's Head Elf, and Paige Tamada, who is endearing as Judy, the Little Elf.  	Rounding out the supporting cast are Peter Boyle (Mr. Whittle), Mary Gross (Miss Daniels), Larry Brandenburg (Detective Nunzio), Judith Scott (Susan), Jayne Eastwood (Judy, the Waitress) and Joyce Guy (Principal Compton).  An entertaining and ultimately uplifting movie, `The Santa Clause' is funny and enjoyable and has a lot to offer in the way of family entertainment, the kind of film adults and kids alike are going to appreciate.  And it may even make you believe in some things you hadn't even considered before-- but that's for you to figure out as you watch the movie.  And that's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 8/10.

"The Santa Clause" isn't laugh out loud, roll on the floor comedy; it isn't old-fashioned "It's a Wonderful Life," romance. Nope. It's an original '90s style Christmas story that tugs at your heart strings, and reminds you that we were all kids once. It reminds you of those days when you dreamt of Santa... when you stood in line waiting to sit on the jolly elf's lap... your knees shaking... as you tried to memorize what you were going to ask Santa. Anyone who isn't touched by this movie should look for the little boy or girl inside, and remember the Christmas Eves when you listened for the clatter of reindeer hooves on the roof. If you have no such memories, you may not understand this movie. Thumbs up to Tim Allen and Judge Reinhold! Thanks for the happy tears!

TIM ALLEN provides a bunch of chuckles and good cheer as the amiable, goofy father of ERIC LLOYD who sees Santa Claus take a tumble off his roof one Christmas Eve and finds he must substitute for the "big guy," taking the reindeer to the North Pole toy shop for further directions along with his young son.The script is full of one-liners that Allen tosses off with comic skill. His father role is played for laughs but also has his tender side when moments call for it. His needling of JUDGE REINHOLD about his awful sweaters becomes a running joke. So do many of the other amusing moments in a script that is both clever and highly original. ERIC LLOYD proves to be an appealing child actor as the boy who urges his father to be a substitute Santa.To get a flavor of the dialog, just take a look at the "quotes" from the film on the Quote page.It's handsomely produced in wonderful color to give the film its winter atmosphere (filmed in Canada).Summing up: It's worth going along for the ride. A charming Christmas fantasy with lots of amusing situations. Brisk entertainment for the masses, it inspired a couple of sequels.

It gets more difficult this time each year to sit down in front of a good Christmas film, but this Disney feature from the 90's was a pleasant surprise. Tim Allen is the fast-talking salesman single parent trying to connect with his reluctant young son on Christmas Eve. Junior it seems would rather be with his mother and her new man, a confident, handsome psychiatrist with a penchant for wearing garish sweaters. The only thing that really links the boy with his dad is their shared belief in Santa Claus unlike his more modern-thinking mum and partner. Christmas Eve goes fairly disastrously between father and son, as they find themselves in a cafe amusingly populated by a host of other single dads and their kids after Tim burns the turkey before the tetchy, tired dad puts his son down to bed for the big sleep. However when they're awakened by noises on the roof, an unimaginable chain of events opens up ahead of them, not only affecting this Christmas but all their Christmases to come.For me the film pitched itself just nicely between catering to adults and children. There are plenty of good grown-up, but never crude, if you can forgive a couple of flatulence episodes, jokes and sight-gags especially as Allen's plight dawns on him, even a simple one like the police sketch-plan used to corner this new Santa prominently featuring a cop's favourite haunt, the do'nut shop, had me smiling. Sure one or two of the kids playing elves seemed to be reading their lines off cue-cards, but head elf Bernard and especially the little girl playing the worldly elf Judy are a delight.Allen himself is very good, especially when he bulks up to fill the big man's shoes (and robe and hat) and if his boy Charlie initially seems like another production-line cute, smart, mop-haired kid, even he gets some neat lines and develops a likeable personality. The special effects are nice, involving the reindeer sleigh and answering that old chestnut as to how Santa gets down chimneys without fireplaces, even if they are slightly dated by modern standards and I liked the ending for the way it didn't take the easy resolution it looked for a long time it was headed.In short, this was very enjoyable festive family entertainment, recommended Christmas viewing.

I remember The Santa Clause from 1994 and the good vibe it generated and the money it made. But at the time I gave it a pass; my children were teenagers and didn't have much interest in kids movies. Nor did I. But this holiday season I felt like feel-good movie. Something akin to A Christmas Story, one of my all-time favorites, but one I've seen too many times. I needed a new Christmas movie and The Santa Claus seemed like a promising candidate. Wrong.Tim Allen plays Scott Calvin, a workaholic divorced parent who cannot connect with his young son. And he desperately wants to, both for his son and to offset the influence of Mom's new boyfriend. But Scott can't do anything right. Then on Christmas Eve Scott accidentally kills Santa Clause. Funny, huh? The clause in the title is not a misspelling, but refers to the legal clause that requires anyone who offs Santa to take his place. This is cleverly done, although it is a bit maudlin. Well guess what happens? Scott learns the (non-religious) meaning of Christmas, bonds with his son, discovers himselfmake that a lot maudlin. In 1994 Tim Allen was riding high with his hit TV show, Home Improvement, and in The Santa Clause he plays Tim Allen playing Tim Allen playing Santa Clause. No stretch here. And the rest of the cast is just there as a foil for Tim. And the plot, however clever, just wasn't very entertaining to this reviewer. Actually, this minority commentator didn't like The Santa Clause very much at all, and certainly can't recommend it to anyone.

There aren't many movies that can kill off Santa in the first act and constantly poke holes in the folklore the entire time while still maintaining a jolly Christmas spirit, but The Santa Clause manages to pull it off. The sweet optimism of this holiday film even balances out Tim Allen's constant sarcasm. It's a unique story which offers some fun additions to the mythology. It does get a little cheesy near the end after the E. L. F. S. arrive, and some references & visual effects make this movie a little less timeless than others, but I'm up for watching The Santa Clause every couple years or so.

This film may be one of the greatest Christmas films of all time its soo good that its soo fun to watch. Its a very rewatchable film and very enjoyable. You need to watch this film it soo good and the film has a alot of comedy. Tim Allen acts out as Buzz and now Santa.

A satisfactory Christmas film.'The Santa Clause' starts off pretty strongly, with Tim Allen (Scott) showing off some quick and amusing wit. The early moments are actually the best parts in my opinion, the rest of the 97 minutes are enjoyable enough though.Allen is easily the most standout part of the film, none of the other cast members really come close at all. Eric Lloyd does an alright job as Scott's son, Charlie. The festive music is pleasant, while the sets etc. look decent - the special effects aren't incredible, but are certainly serviceable.Many better Xmas productions out there, but there's enough here to feel entertained by.

Scott Calvin (Tim Allen) is a loud mouth weasel toy executive. He's a divorced father to Charlie who doesn't particularly like him. Charlie is told that Santa doesn't exist by an older boy. Then on the night before Christmas, Santa falls off of their roof, and disappears leaving behind his suit, reindeers, and sleight. Under pressure from Charlie, Scott puts on the suit and becomes the new Santa.Tim Allen plays a lot of these Scrooge characters. It's great when he learns to be a better person. That's what we get a lot of from this movie. There is some fun as he becomes Santa over time. David Krumholtz is great as the annoyed Bernard the Elf. And the North Pole has a toy store sort of charm.The movie doesn't have any big laugh. It's more of a mild charming cute movie with a few chuckles. It's a good family movie on that level.