The fact that I'm a Dane made my view towards this movie very critical. The way Denmark and Danes are portrayed don't have any part of reality in it, and the view on Europeans seems shallow, simple and very caricature-like. I hope that one day even teen-movies from U.S.A. can be a little sophisticated and subtle.I really like Julia Stiles as an actress and I admire her talent but I simply doesn't get why she's able to participate in such a simplified film. The old-fashioned love story is kind of great, but when you have some knowledge of how Danish society actually functions you can't really appreciate this movie as you're supposed to.Facts about Denmark: The Royal Family doesn't take part in politics and none of the members are allowed to vote at elections. The actual Danish Crown Prince, Frederik 10th, has been studying Political Science at Harvard University (92-93) without any undercover servant/nanny, can you believe that!(just kidding)To sum up the plot itself is okay, but the superficial way of portraying Europeans is a bad habit a lot of Americans has, sorry but true. A whole lot of people seem to think that Denmark is the capital of Sweden. My point is that Europe contains several different cultures and the countries are actually easy to separate from one another.

My friend and I decided to rent both The Prince and Me and The Prince and Me 2, we'd watch them back to back, just for fun. We both like Julia Styles and this looked like a cute movie. Well, we're both in our 20's, so in some ways the film missed for us, I think it was more aimed at a teen audience, not to sound sexist(I'm a girl too), but more precisely, at teenage girls.It's about a college girl, Paige, who is working so hard to get into med school and can't afford any distractions. Edvard is the Prince of Denmark and sees a commercial of "college girls gone wild in Wisconsin", he thinks that it's true and decides to take a trip to Wisconsin and meets Paige. They get off the wrong foot, since he tells her to take her top off. But they end up having a science class together and become partners, eventually, you know, they end up falling for each other. But since "Eddie" doesn't want anyone to know he's a prince, Paige finds out the hard way through the paparazzi, but she gets back with him in Denmark, where Eddie proposes and she is to be the future queen of the Denmark, but it may be too much to handle for a simple farm girl.The Prince and Me is very predictable and very unrealistic, but I think that it was a sweet little comedy for teens. That's the crowd it was aimed for, which is cool, but for women who are older, I think that we got a few laughs and enjoyed it. The guys? Trust me, I don't think they're going to dig it.6/10

SPOILERS THROUGHOUT: Although, this isn't a great movie, it's a sweet one and much better then other movies of this sort. Luke Mably and Julia Stiles maybe the reason. They are both great in their roles and I could believe both were the characters they portrayed. I also liked the supporting cast who were surprisingly good and helped keep the picture interesting and at times humorous.This isn't a classic or anything but it is a lovable little fairy tale that doesn't take itself to seriously. I recently saw a similar movie called "First daughter". (Though that was more geared toward politics, there were similarities). This is much better because it doesn't have a lot of the flaws present in first daughter. The picture is not boring, it's engaging and fun. It runs smoothly too, the pacing is quite good, and the two leads are both convincing and have enormous chemistry. Lovely photography and a certain sweetness that is prevalent throughout, help things along.This is a movie that was OK to view when one is in a light mood, it could have been even better had it had the element of surprise at least once in awhile in the picture and gotten rid of some of the plot contrivances that pop up late in the picture (and which nearly every movie of this sort seems to have.) Prince & Me however, while not being great, is fun, a whimsical little fairytale that you may like more then you expect. This is a perfect 6.5 of 10, and recommended to people who may like this type of flick.

I decided to write a review for this movie because it appears that people still feel the need to rip on it to this very day. I considered giving The Prince & Me a 10 star rating to offset the harsh 1 star ratings, but I ultimately chose not to because I want to paint a fair picture of this movie. To address the predictability issue- yes, it's predictable. There is a second breakup that is actually not typical for romance movies and where we leave their relationship is refreshing and somewhat unique.In terms of the Denmark inaccuracies, frustrating though they may be, most of them are not a terribly big deal. The biggest gaffe is probably the royals being politically active in a way that suggests an unrealistic amount of power. I also noticed people commenting on the names and, outside of Edvard, I do believe that the royal family's names are not Danish.The "Girls Gone Wild" thing and the way it is paid off only serves to make Edvard an ignorant fool and I wish they hadn't gone there.All that being said, this is a rom-com from 2004 and that should tell you what to expect. The acting is good, the chemistry is good, and there are some funny moments. It's just a fun time with an earnest and important message.

In this teen romance, a Wisconsin student studying to be a doctor (Stiles) falls in love with the crown prince of Denmark (Luke Mably), putting her career plans into question and forcing her to decide between being a doctor and having a life as royalty.I didn't have any desire to see this but my girlfriend wanted to watch it so we did. I thought it was going to at least be tolerable because of two reasons. First, Julia Stiles is actually a decent actress. The other reason is because of Martha Coolidge. She has made some pretty entertaining films in the past. Unfortunately, it wasn't very good. The story is stale and predictable. There are no surprises and it was kind of pointless to recycle such an old story and do nothing new with it. The film's biggest problem is the running time. 111 minutes isn't really that long but for a film like this it is. It could have been short and painless like most films from the same genre but instead it was long and dull.For some reason Martha Coolidge wanted to run scenes longer than they needed to be. The film takes forever to get to obvious places and a lot of it could have been edited. The acting is surprisingly bland. The characters are likable just not very interesting. Julia Stiles disappointed me with her performance. She just wasn't believable enough and I don't think she's pretty enough to really pull off the role. Luke Malby gives an okay performance, nothing special. Unlike the best romantic comedies I have seen, the supporting cast is very weak. Usually if the leads are weak then the supporting cast can make up for it. If anything, they are actually weaker then the two leadThe film wasn't completely bad though. There were a few funny moments and the romance did work sometimes. The film was also pretty harmless so there was nothing to really hate. Compared to recent chick flicks, The Prince and Me is better than Chasing Liberty but not as good as Win a Date with Tad Hamilton. The film was just too average and generic to truly stand out. In the end, unless you're a fan of Julia Stiles you should probably just skip this forgettable chick flick. Rating 5/10

This movie was cute, but I felt like it could've been a little shorter. Other than that, it is like one of my dreams! Wouldn't it just be great to find a random prince, get married, and become rich? Lol. Good movie but I don't know how I'd feel about watching the sequels or any of that.

Seriously - I couldn't even stomach watching the whole thing. The performances are static and the dialogue is jarring. The plot is three steps over the line of predictability (and not in a good way like some rom coms done well) I was sitting cringing at the start of every scene as you saw a constant regurgitation of anti-climatic cliché scenarios and lines. I made it to just over 40 minutes without simultaneously stabbing myself in the eardrum and eye which I think is an achievement! In conclusion I would just like to say that Julia Styles hit her mark in 10 Things I Hate About You (a predictable rom com that defined my teenage years)and should have given up acting at that point.

Definitely a politically correct fairytale, although I don't mean it as derogatory as it may sound.A playboy prince is lured to Wisconsin by an ad he sees on TV where some small time producer has gotten girls to lift up their shirts and other sordid activities by (apparently) pleading and asking nicely. Coming to the states with this attitude, he is rejected and then intrigued by an ambitious and intelligent doctor-wanna be (Julia Stiles) who thinks (as most would) he's a scum-bag. But she needs help with her Shakespeare credit she has to get on her way for her scientifically oriented career. The Prince is a perfect help, being well versed in this sort of literature.An inevitable romance brews between the two, as we all expect. Yet it's not a "happily ever after" ending.The unsettling ending is what saved the movie in my point of view. Not a Julia Stiles fan, I found her performance mediocre and the Prince's was decent. Ben Miller, stuck in yet another role as hand-servant/butler/sidekick (Bough from Johnny English), was enjoyable. The twist towards what you would think is the end is what got me. Where most American boy-meets girl movies would have cut, cleaned and wrapped it up, The Prince & Me goes on. THAT'S when I started to pay attention and get "into" the story. I even rewound it to that part just to watch it again.It's not a movie I would go out and buy for my home collection unless it was in a clearance bin. But it wasn't a terrible flick, either.

I absolutely love this movie. It's very unrealistic, but it is a good cute fairy tale movie that just makes you feel good to watch. You can watch it and thing to yourself "Oh I wish that was me." in a eight year old girl thinking about prince charming kind of way.I just love the library scene. when they are playing 'footsy with there hands' as I like to call it. It takes me back to so many good memories from when I was younger. And in a way not to be "R" rated or anything but something about watching then two "In the stacks" just turned me on.It's definitely one of the best, but if you aren't into girlie girl movies, it's not for you.

The Prince and me is the classic tale of rich person falls in love with poor person. Can they overcome the challenges faced by thier economic level. Of course you know the answer to that without even seeing the movie. With that being said, thier is a suprise twist at the end.This movie was a great movie. I don't know if I beleive Julia Stiles was the best for this part. It was hard to beleive that she was a farm girl who was exceptionally smart on her way to Medical School. But hey that's the nature of movie magic.The Prince that she falls for is loaded. I'm talking really loaded. I don't know how you can adjust to becoming as rich as she would become.The movie is a bit dull in parts but overall it is a good movie. The ladies will really love this movie, because it is really sensitive. Hey guys don't fret their is a real good lawnmower race that would keep you entertained.

This was one of the stupidest movies I have ever seen. The prince of Denmark- a womanizer- goes to school in the USA, falls in love with a farm girl in Wisconsin and is completely transformed into a responsible royalty ready to lead a country as a king. In between there is some sort of a race in the farm community of Wisconsin where our prince proves his mettle because he has been doing car racing as a pastime in Denmark (while he was an irresponsible Casanova).The silliness does not stop there. Paige leaves for Denmark on a whim, to follow her lover, and is ready to become queen. However, when her sweetheart is interrupted while kissing her, to address some important business about his country, she becomes sullen and decides to go back to the USA.They could have ended the story there- not a bad way to end it. However, this is Hollywood, folks! It must have a romantic, happy ending. Paige graduates from college despite missing two weeks of school, and while she is celebrating her graduation, prince charming returns,- out of nowhere- after he has been crowned the King of Denmark, and asks her to marry him after she finishes medical school. He would wait for her, he says. So the Queen of Denmark would be a practicing physician (or surgeon). THE (happy) END. This is saccarin sweet.The acting was not bad, but Julia Stiles is hardly a beauty. That is acceptable; the character was not meant to be beautiful. The story is so bad though that even suspending your intelligence does not make it palatable.I apologize to those who enjoyed this movie. To each his own.My recommendation- stay away from it if you value your time.