I just got back from seeing a late night showing of The Mechanic. After having a long week, this film did exactly what I wanted it to do...entertain me. Was the plot original? No. Was the acting amazing? No. But... Was the action good? Yes. Was Jason Stathham in it? Yes. Can you ask for anything else in an action film these days? It didn't label itself as a milestone of cinematic achievement. It was marketed as an action film, with good death scenes, mildly intriguing characters, and a simple plot and it delivered exactly on cue. Go see this if you just want to see some good action stars kick-butt for a couple of hours. 6/10

Some things may not make sense and the storytelling may feel extremely fast paced, but you know what, in those moments where 'The Mechanic' promised to entertain you, it does it at its best. And don't get me wrong, cause I'm not a Statham's fan. I didn't like 'The transporter' cause the acting (especially the bad guy) was way too unreal. I didn't like 'Crank' either cause the directing was really bad. 'The Mechanic' is not a movie focused on the story but on the action, and that's where it shines. The action scenes are really sublime and they don't stop until the last minute. Actors also fit in an interesting story. Again, the director chose not to develop the story but to give an explosive experience, and I believe he achieved it. Don't look for a deep experience here and you won't be disappointed.

I am one of the original Jason Statham fans. I loved the Transporter, Crank and his collaborations with Guy Ritchie like Revolver and even tolerated some of his less glorious efforts such as Death Race.For me what makes his movies so enjoyable is the tongue in cheek humour and the likable side of the tough guy. We all know he's not a great actor but the lovable rogue is his trademark and that's why we keep going back for more."The Mechanic" is about a ruthless hit man and it gives Statham no opportunity to smile or engage in banter, nor make us laugh. It's a non- stop action film with a few goofs and a script with holes big enough to drive a bus through. Normally I would forgive and forget, because I like him, but he didn't make me laugh nor make me wish I could be like him this time. There were no characters to like in this film, but there was plenty of action which makes it instantly forgettable. I know you want to read the movie was great but I wouldn't be honest if I pretended it was. Worth watching but don't expect another Transporter.

A typical Statham movie, like the Transporter but with a higher dose of brutality and nastiness. Statham's character Arthur Bishop, a.k.a the Mechanic, is awesomely tough and cold-blooded, and the assassination plans and escapes are brilliant. But images like that of an old man getting shot in the chest (near the beginning) are hard to shake. Ben Foster is great as the jaded alcoholic who becomes the apprentice assassin. It's not clear where he learnt to take on a 350 pound killer with his bare hands, but like he says, "I've seen some s***." All the men in black suits and SUVs who try to protect their clients are equally impressive, and ineffectual. What use are dark glasses and handguns against killers who can climb buildings? Bishop has his hideaway out on the Bayou where he enjoys the finer things in life, like playing the soft classical music that soothes him after a killing, and rebuilding his Jaguar. (And his idea of rebuilding involves micrometres as much as wrenches.) He's got an arrangement with a woman that involves quick visits and wads of cash left on the table. His friend Harry tells him that he (Bishop) needs companionship, but the movie makes it pretty plain why his friendships don't last long. After the intense action sequences you may be saying cool, but does this guy have a soul? If so, it's well hidden under Statham's half-shaved, snarled-lip mug.

A typical recent Jason Statham outing, although there's less action to begin with than you might expect having witnessed the trailer. THE MECHANIC is a remake of an old Charlie Bronson flick about a hit-man who takes on a young apprentice and the escapades that they subsequently undertake. After a lifetime of jokey action stars delivering quip after quip, it's quite pleasing to see a film that takes a more serious tone than most, with Statham gruffer than usual and few opportunities for humour in the script.The opening of the film works well, introducing the lead character in a way similar to LEON and including a nice-but-brief turn for Donald Sutherland whose presence really starts the ball rolling. Then into the mix we have Ben Foster (3:10 TO YUMA), playing another of his trademark volatile characters, and he brings some much-needed urgency and danger to the production. The story that follows has plenty of inventive moments and certainly keeps you watching throughout, although it's not until late on that the overall structure becomes apparent.Simon West, who once made CON AIR and who has just finished work on THE EXPENDABLES 2, handles the action sequences well; although there's some use of the dreaded shaky-cam here, it's not over-utilised like in other movies, so at the very least you can still see what's going on. There are some good vehicle stunts, plus the requisite fights and shoot-outs, along with a climax that proves dramatically satisfying. THE MECHANIC certainly isn't anything more than a run-of-the-mill action flick but on the other hand it's a run-of-the-mill action flick that does tick all of the right boxes.

What I find alarming when I read reviews is I either get someone who is trying to pretend to be some great film critic from the New York Times or Daily Express, or someone who is simply stupid. Now call me old fashioned; but if I see a sign that says Jo Bloggs Comedian- if anyone is easily offended please do not attend and I fell into the bracket of easily offended, I wouldn't go. Similarly if I knew the comedian sounded just the same as every other comedian that is currently tapping the boards I wouldn't go. SO it beggars belief that someone says Jason Statham is rubbish and can't act and is one dimensional. SO why are you going to watch him, if you think he's so Great!! Then compare a film to one previously made some years ago with the late Charles Bronson and say it doesn't match up to that. You are already setting yourself up for a fall if you start comparing things. Let's value it as a film, is it entertaining? YES. Does it have a story line, you can follow and understand and get to grips with? YES Is there good action scenes . YES I found the cinematic experience a pleasurable one. Nothing outstanding, it won't be getting any Oscars, I know what to expect when I see Jason Statham and he never lets you down (I think WAR is his best movie- outstanding), Ben Foster plays a good part too and so the supporting cast fulfil there role. I was happy ate my popcorn and drank me Cola, had a big smile went home, Job done- Why people start dissecting it and finding that a paper clip was on a table one minute and not the next I think YOU ARE SAD! Just don't go if you hate Jason Stantham and if you don't like violence and the odd expletive, stay at home and watch the Untouchables or something. Otherwise go and be entertained it will not disappoint.

You don't see enough accurate remakes of movies these days, and that's why I was particularly happy with this one.To start off on a different note, I've never quite enjoyed the on screen pleasure of Jason statham much. I'll let ya know that right up front as a guy who doesn't necessarily flock to the theatre every time I hear about one of his new films coming out. As well, I must confess, I've never seen the original (The Mechanic (1972)) either, but I have read a very detailed and accurate storyline/review of it, and it seems that based on the specific events that take place in each Mechanic film are quite accurate between one another. As well, it seems, from comparison, watching the remake, and knowing the stars of the original (the mechanic being Charles Bronson) that both sets of actors seem to fit the role quite well for this typical turn your mind off and watch stuff explode and plans go wrong action film. There is a few humorous moments as well. Kind of tongue in cheek, and dark humour combined, in both the original and remake of this film. Take a look if you like any of the contributing aspects this movie has to offer.

I understand the suspension of disbelief. I understand watching only for "entertainment" but even within these realms this movie makes absolutely no sense. The lead character is the heartless solitary killer for hire working for the nondescript assassins r us. Then out of nowhere a guy shows up and tells him his best and only friend, his freaking mentor betrayed the company causing the death of some fellow assassins. Almost without question he promptly kills him... why? he betrayed the company, so... some other assassins got killed that he either didn't know or did not like, and what does he do? He shoots his friend. He doesn't help him or warn him or even ask him if it's true, (yes he falls or the oldest hit man ploy in the book) he shoots him because if he doesn't do it someone else will, stupid.Then the heartless cold blooded assassin feels some sort of guilt and takes his dead friend's son under his wing and in less than two weeks trains him to be a super assassin taking out other trained killers with no sweat, right.Eventually our hero figures out what every single person watching knew from the beginning, he was set up. He then proceeds to hunt down and kill everyone involved even his best friends son. Yep that's right he drags this innocent kid into the situation, he doesn't need the kids help for any of it nor does he makes any attempt to explain anything to him he just goes to very elaborate lengths to plan the kid's death.The end.

Being a hit-man has its challenges. Like murdering people for money and then not trying to think about it. After all, hit-man ARE human too and have feelings, just like the rest of us who work at more mundane jobs. The problem with this movie is that the story is so weak that not even the nonstop violence is enough to prop it up. Gratuitous scenes of violence is a telltale sign that a movie is in trouble and this movie is in deep trouble. Besides offering the thinnest of stories, the movie contains what has to be some of the cheesiest acting in recent cinematic history. The movie borders on being campy yet fails to attain that dubious status since it's really not goofy enough to be taken with a grain of salt. In short, the story is stale but without being laughable. The characters are two-dimensional, cartoon-like, and are devoid of anything that sparks even the slightest bit of interest. The violence is pervasive and explicit, but when the targets themselves are vicious, the violence fails to generate any sympathy. A hit-man plotting to assassinate another hit-man just does not make for a dramatic story.

Remake from classic film directed by Michael Winner (1972) and starred by Charles Bronson with screenplay by Lewis John Carlino . Thrilling movie about the very deadly rivalry between two contact killers . Arthur Bishop (Jason Statham in similar role to Charles Bronson) is a very professional hit man , he is the number one killing people with a bullet whose reputation has caught up with him. Bishop makes his missions of the way more mechanic and perfect, for that reason he is known as ¨The mechanic¨. Lone Bishop only has one friend named Harry (Donald Sutherland in the Keenan Wynn character) . His last assignment for a powerful organization (led by Tony Goldwyn) results to be the killing an important business man . Stressed and tired he plans to get out after one of his last jobs. He always works alone but he takes an apprentice named Steve McKenna (Ben Foster , role formerly played by Jan-Michael Vincent) who learns the criminal lessons from his master , both have innumerable ways to murder. At the beginning the protégé follows the advices given by his master murderous . Both of whom form a relentless killer team but Bishop is caught in the middle of treason. As hot-headed Steve McKenna want to off Bronson and attempts to assume the position of top hit-man.This crime thriller packs intrigue, suspense, noisy action-packed with grisly killings ,explosive excitement, thrills and lots of violence and sex . This moving film is as calculating , cold and passionless as its central characters , two brutal hired assassins . Jason Statham with his usual hard acting displays efficiently his weapons and killing mercilessly his objectives . It's certainly thrilling , though the morality may be questionable , even in this time, as the spectators were clearly on the Statham's side in spite of being a cruel killer . Statham as a wealthy murderer for a powerful organization offers the sort of strong acting as always. Furthermore, appears a nice secondary cast as Donald Sutherland , Tony Goldwyn and brief performance of the gorgeous fashion model Mini Anden as Bishop's love interest, but the romance isn't what this movie offers , it is about action and violence and director knows his work . It packs stirring musical score composed, orchestrated and performed by Mark Isham . Colorful cinematography by Eric Schmidt with spectacular scenes filmed at New Orleans . This big hit motion picture is professionally directed by Simon West though with no originality . The director Simon West's well-oiled techniques generate some explosive entertainment and excitement as usual . This is an acceptable film about a deadly rivalry among two hired killers that will appeal to Jason Statham fans and action lovers .

thefilmsmith.com The iconic bald white guy John McClane is no longer allowed to say his catch phrase on screen, or shoot people who actually ooze blood. So it's good to see another bald white guy take up the action film banner in all its messiness.Jason Statham plays Arthur Bishop, a mechanic, who whacks guys with the skill to make them look like accidents. Things get dicey when his wheelchair-bound boss Harry McKenna (Donald Sutherland) is killed, and McKenna's vengeful son Steve (Ben Foster) comes looking for an education in the assassin business.From The Transporter to Crank, Jason Statham is a wrecking ball: you wheel him in to rock the house, but if you're looking for something more riveting between action feats (character development, acting, etc), you need a different tool. Which is where Ben Foster is useful. In the critical darling The Messenger or The Mechanic Foster vibrates with a centered zen that draws you in. Statham may have a menacing mug, but Foster, as the enigmatic Steve, upstages the action star at every turn.Neither actor benefits from Simon West's direction, since most action scenes are close enough to make out nose hairs, but none of the fisticuffs. Where Statham's physical virtuosity could be showcased, West forces us to be in the scuffle with nary a notion of what's going on. This film doctor prescribes some wide shots from a Jackie Chan film.Despite directorial issues, some action pieces escape mangling. Hand-to-hand combat is particularly brutal when small-statured Steve goes up against a 300 pound foe and his clever shots with a Glock 9mm make him an admirable badass.The brutality of these scenes is a change of pace since we've been raised by a decade of PG-13 cop films that avoid the F-Bomb or bits of blood that get a film slapped with an R rating (which equals lower box office receipts and restrictions on advertisements). Foster and Statham dispatch goons in such varied, messy ways you almost feels sorry for the hapless henchmen. The film's blood lust is as dark as its blood stains.MAJOR SPOILERS, SKIP PARAGRAPHS What's most disappointing about The Mechanic is that it looks to conclude with a poetic equilibrium, yet trades it in for a perfunctory ending that leaves an opening for a sequel.One of the plot twists to the film is that Arthur is told Harry McKenna crossed the company they both worked for. Arthur kills Harry (who tells Arthur, "I'm glad it was you,"); this leaves dangling tension between Arthur and Harry's son Steve. Once Steve knows Arthur killed his father, the two men stop at a gas station. At this point each of them knows the truth, but neither let on. Which makes it all the more meaningful when Arthur tells Steve, "I'm sorry about everything," in a vague unrelated way, possibly hinting that he knows what Steve is about to do.Steve walks away from the truck while pumping gas and shoots the gas tank, engulfing Arthur's truck in flames. He then goes back to Arthur's place. A sports car Arthur has been working on is now completed and Steve takes it for a spin. He sees a piece of paper in the passenger seat which tells him "If you're reading this, you're dead." Steve good-naturedly lols before being blown up.A nice, reciprocal, poetic ending for a couple of assassins.Until The film cuts to security camera footage of the truck explosion, which shows Arthur rolling away in a comical fast-forward – rewind loop. We then cut to a close up of Arthur leaving the crime scene and driving away in a truck he just happened to have stationed nearby for just such a random occasion.There isn't anything inherently wrong with this ending – it's just not as fresh as the one hinted at. Having Steve kill our lead guy went against tired action film tropes. The ideal ending would have had Steve drive away with Arthur's sports car (a changing of the guard) or even having them both kill each other, Steve's last words being laughter. That would have been something to talk about.But no. Kill the most interesting character and leave the block of wood, Statham, standing to live another day – or star in another installment.MAJOR SPOILERS OVER Yes, I'm disappointed the film didn't follow through on its transcendent ending, but don't let that dissuade you from seeing this. The action sequences will making you think you've been transported to the 1990′s (some digital blood, but otherwise tons of practical effects) and Ben Foster makes it capable of withstanding a second viewing. If you were disappointed by The Expendables, The Mechanic is a good mix of bullets and character to quench your action thirst.-Remington Smith

(Only minor spoilage here, I try not to give much away if you haven't seen it yet).I liked the movie, it was certainly entertaining. Statham seems to crank, or rather be cranked out in similar genres (in general action movies). Not bad, although I don't think he is the perfect fit for the role in this movie. As an actor great, but I think physically he's a bit small so doesn't make such an intimidating hit-man. At least not what I might expect in he genre/stereotype anyhow. Seems to me, after so many years of doing this the guy should be much older, have a bit more maturity to him, and be a bit like vintage wine. Also this movie was a big Jame's Bond'ish as he has some kind of impeccable sense of timing and luck. If you want an entertaining movie for your weekend, and you like action movies then give this one a shot.However if you didn't know already this is a remake of a 1972 version with Charles Bronson in the leading role. Bronson seems a lot better fit. He has a darker kind of mysterious look (which also made movies like "Once Upon a Time in the West", "Machine-Gun Kelly", etc).See both this version and the original.

Creators: Directed by Simon West, director of the legendary Con Air (didn't know this before viewing; no wonder I was so pleasantly surprised) Story and Screenplay by Lewis John Carlino, writer of the 1972 version (Ignorantly, I had previously no idea of this original's existence). Richard Wenk (16 Blocks) also contributing to the screenplayWhat Happened: Plain and simple action/hit-man genre film. Jason Statham's Arthur Bishop takes under his wing Steve McKenna (Ben Foster), the son of his old friend/mentor Harry McKenna (Donald Sutherland) - who also happens to be his last hit. Bishop tries to bring him up to his regimented standard, but the youthful, unruly McKenna has his own eccentric style. Plenty of over-masculine shenanigans and brutal deaths ensue.Theme/Message: As a non-ironic display of machismo it is important to concede that most of the point of this film existing is for the spectacle of things blowing up, brains blowing out and screwdrivers rammed through faces. Reading past this a little, I thought that there was a thinly veiled idea that both ends of a spectrum are not healthy. There seemed to be an effort to promote the balance between the overly formulaic control freak (Bishop) and the chaotic, out of control degenerate (McKenna), but this theory didn't hold up toward the end. I don't know if having one of the most physically intimidating and brutish displays of might come from a gay hit-man was some way of counteracting its unapologetic masculinity or not, but it was something to note.What it did particularly well: The brutality really was entertaining. I was expecting Transporter levels of action, but that wasn't what the film was about. It was a little slower paced than that, but with the violence in the action sequences really ramped up and very graphic. The two leads were really crassly entertaining; never did the uber-machismo bother me, as it sometimes tends to (I'm looking at you Expendables). It was like a really unsophisticated version Corbijn's The American (complete with ridiculously attractive prostitute). In fact, considering The American was a very European film - itself an ironic concept - this was like an American version of The American - Irony overdrive. The film was paced really well too; both the action and the character development (yes it did have a little) were nicely spread throughout so that there were no lulls.What unimpressed or didn't quite reach potential: Certain plot holes that were a little unforgivable, e.g. when they explained that McKenna was able to make a connection with their next mark because this is his first job. Really, the son of one of the biggest names in hit-man organisation wouldn't ring any alarms to a professional doing some background checks?Performance of the film: Ben Foster was really something. Still has that slightly psychotic look in his eyes that he had back in Six Feet Under, but he really impresses as a competent and charismatic action star, with his own unique edge. (He was also my best performance of 30 Days of Night)Scene of the film: Steve McKenna blasting his way out of a pretty dire situation and thus convincing me of both the character's elite status in this film and of the young actor's potential to be a great action star (he can actually even act)Most outstanding or memorable feature: Brutality of the action. More film musings and the like at destroy-apathy.blogspot.com or on twitter: @destroyapathy

Most people know Jason Statham movies involve high octane action with brilliant fight sequences, you will be happy to know that this film delivers this well, however I believe that a movie with no decent storyline or good characters has no reason being made, even if the action is good. Some of the specifics of the film are ridiculous and some are cliché. Nothing in the story is fresh or original, if you have a good idea of what Jason Statham says or does in his action movies he probably will say and do them in this one, you won't be surprised a lot in this film, one surprise element may pop up but it definitely isn't enough. If you enjoy action movies regardless of the storyline