i expected this movie to be a normal and i just want to see it for Tom Hanks but as movie goes through i cry,i laugh and there comes a feeling which can't be described in words. i rate this movie as the best i have ever seen. some moments in the movie makes me hold my bed pillow in the tightest ever grip. i can guarantee that this movie will leave an impression in your mind for a long time. i even say that this movie is better than shawshank redemption.fantastic story, brilliant acting,mind boggling feelings and overall an unforgettable drama. if you have watched 1000 movies and not this then your movie watching journey is incomplete.i will also make sure that even my next generation should watch this one.

"The Green Mile" is one of my favorite Stephen King books and I have read it several times.  I was anxiously anticipating the film version, but was concerned that the emotional impact of the book could not be replicated on screen.  Fortunately this wonderful story was adapted by Frank Darabont, who did such a magnificent job bringing King's "Shawshank Redemption" to the screen.  He does the same high quality work with "The Green Mile".  The story is faithful to the book, only losing details that were not important to the story anyway.  The casting is superb - every actor is perfectly suited for his role and does an excellent job, although I would like to single out Doug Hutchison.  His portrayal of the detestable Percy is right on the mark and suggests complexities in this character I had not discovered in the book.  The length is about three hours and it seems that critics are complaining about that.  I can't understand the complaints.  The film never drags and is never dull, and it certainly didn't feel three hours long.  The length is needed to tell this story the way it should be told, and the story is so very engrossing.  Best of all, Darabont and the actors bring so much emotion ot the screen, that I cried like a baby through several scenes. "The Green Mile" will haunt you.

GREATEST FILM I HAVE EVER SEEN. i remember seeing it when it first came out when i was 12 years old. now i just finished watching it and have gone through practically a whole box of tissues...that pure, love and honesty was portrayed so exquisitely well by Michael Clarke Duncan... it made me want to tear my hair out. If there is anything in this world which reminds me of true human love and compassion, it is this film. If you ever give up hope on humanity and the destruction which our disgusting race has brought to this world, watch "The Green Mile" Hopefully it will change your outlook a little bit like it just has mine.11/10 SHOULD HAVE WON ALL THE AWARDS AVAILABLE THE YEAR OF IT'S RELEASE.

The length of the movie was perfect. It kept to the story to an amazing degree. The few changes didn't hurt the feeling nor the telling. The story itself is stirring and captivating. The casting of the parts and their portrayal were right on. This is one of the best movie versions of a Steven King novel I've ever seen, and I think I've seen them all. If you're prone to tears at a film, take extra tissues, you'll need them. The theater I was in was a mass of sniffles through the end credits. If you like fantasy/drama the film cannot be missed. There are some graphic scenes that may upset some, but this is Steven King. This is a movie I plan to add to my video collection as soon as the Letter Box version hits the shelves.

The Shawshank Redemption is possibly my favorite movie ever. I had seen many movies before it, and I've certainly seen a lot after, but not many of them made me feel what that one did. Now, I have that feeling again. And once again, it comes from watching a Frank Darabont movie. I couldn't possibly explain the overload of emotions I experienced in the 3 hours it lasts. I have laughed. I have felt the emotions of every character. And most of all, I have cried. Very few movies have touched me like this one. Is there something to say about the acting that hasn't been said before? No, it isn't. You may have heard it is flawless, incredible, whatever. You did hear right, it absolutely is. I can't think of anyone in the whole movie that wasn't convincing in the least. The script has its funny moments, but it's incredibly deep, poignant and heartfelt. The characters are so "human" and unpretentious you can't help but adore them. But, well, there will be some you'd like to strangle. There has to be a villain everywhere, right? The Green Mile is a movie I will hardly forget. You can't possibly forget such an emotive story.What, you want to watch it? Great! But don't forget to have grab some tissues first.

I'm glad that a number of reviewers have informed me that this highly unusual tale was a faithful adaption from the novel by Stephen King. I'm not much of a fiction reader so it is gratifying to hear that his vision got to the screen intact. I would not have guessed this film would have come from a horror story writer. No monsters from the id or any place else are present in this story set in the American South of the Thirties. But demons do exist in The Green Mile and there is a man named John Coffey who takes them unto himself.The Green Mile refers to the cell block housing the inmates scheduled for Death Row. In that cell block comes Michael Clarke Duncan who is close to seven feet tall and maybe weighing 400 pounds. He's also as docile as a baby lamb and whose only request is that they leave a night light burning because he gets a little afraid of a strange place in the dark.Of course the guards who have the typical white Alabama attitudes of the day don't quite know what to make of them, but Tom Hanks who captains the cell block and most of the rest find out just how special he is. And Hanks cannot believe that someone like Duncan could possibly be guilty of a double rape/murder of a child.This modern day parable of the Jesus story has King telling us that it is very possible that many of his kind have walked the earth with talents for healing. One of them got a religion worked around him, but they can come in all walks of life and certainly no one would expect one to come in the guise of an illiterate black Alabama sharecropper. But one of my favorite Bible verses has Jesus himself saying that what you do unto the least of my brethren you do unto me.Somebody of Michael Clarke Duncan's size and build is not going to get too many really good roles and he certainly hasn't played anything remotely like John Coffey again. Parts like that don't come along and the film seems almost to have been built around him. It's one of the most moving performance that has ever been put on film in history. And it's an incredibly difficult role, he's meek for his size and Uncle Tom like, but as we learn far from it. In fact Coffey is beyond what the ordinary human mind can comprehend. Duncan received one of four Academy Award nominations that The Green Mile got, in his case for Best Supporting Actor. Since the film is built around him, my only question is why was it the Supporting Actor category?The Green Mile was also nominated for Best Picture, Best Sound and Best Adapted Screenplay, but did not come home a winner in any of these. A pity that one of the best films of the Nineties could not get at least one Oscar.Where there's a Christ-like figure you also have some devil spawn villains and we have a pair of them in Sam Rockwell as another death row prisoner and David Hutchison as a rat of a prison guard with both connections and issues. What happens to them is both poetic and diabolical in true Stephen King tradition. Others in the cast of note are Bonnie Hunt as Mrs. Hanks, James Cromwell and Patricia Clarkson as the warden and his wife, David Morse and Barry Pepper as two other guards on the block and Michael Jeter as another prisoner with a remarkably trained 'circus' mouse.The Green Mile is a remarkable allegorical picture and might be considered for Easter time viewing if it has a season. It certainly will make folks think.

I went looking for an experience. Something that would take me to the limits of my own existence and remind me that even in the darkest corner of my own life, there was hope. I was reminded, instead that along with the triumph there must also be sacrifice. A part of me died in that theater, but I walked out feeling renewed, refreshed...and a little cursed.I think Paul Edgecomb feels the same way.Tom Hanks has to be the epitome of a Hollywood living legend...and the guy's only in his 40s. He went from scraping his way through sophomoric slap like The 'Burbs, Turner & Hooch, and Bachelor Party to rise up in the 90s as our towering "everyman."  Anyone who marvels in his "simple guy in complicated circumstances" roles such as Forrest Gump and Saving Private Ryan knows that he can deliver the goods...and an Oscar nomination (or win...or two...in aROW!!!)  But Tom does something very interesting in The Green Mile.  He lays back.The breakout performance in this film goes to Michael Clark Duncan (right now tied with Sixth Sense's Haley Joel Osment for my Best Supporting Actor vote).  Crippled by his size, Mr. Duncan has a limit of the roles he can play. However, given the role of a child-like behemoth with Christ-like powers of healing, Duncan brings to the screen a performance that will transcend the Denzels and the Poitiers of the world.The Green Mile is Cell Block E in a Louisiana State Prison, death row. Paul Edgecomb run this wing with compassion, a startlingly different approach considering the legendary cruelty of southern prisons.  He is surrounded by men in him employ who all share his philosophy that these men ultimately await the most devastating punishment.  Why make their stay any more troubling.All save one: Percy Wetmore (Doug Hutchinson), relative of the Governor and always ready to remind anyone who disagrees his HIS methods just who got him his job. Percy hates everything about The Green Mile; the prisoners, other guards, even a tiny, brave mouse who befriends one of the inmates (Michael Jeter).  It isn't until another new inmate is processed, a man they call "Wild Bill", that Percy will meet his equal.So where is the common thread? What is a messianic character doing on death row? What role will Tom Hanks play in his redemption? And what's this "curse" thing I brought up in the beginning of this review?If I could tell you, you wouldn't slap the money down on the box office and find it for yourself.  Let me just tell you that the final blessings bestowed by John Coffey (Duncan) could make optimists and pessimists alike find a common ground. How you perceive the final moments will be up to how you impart on yourself...and the world.If John Coffey guilty of his crime?  Are the fates of the characters in this film deserved?  Half and half.  Evil is punished, bu t goodness must bare witness...and that has a price as well.  Will Tom Hanks win another Academy Award?  He shouldn't.  Is this a good film?  No.  It's an incredible film.I still weep for Paul Edgecomb.

It's hard NOT to like the green mile. It's like kicking a sweet puppy.The actors are fine, with great performances, the locations are well done, good camera-work and the movie doesn't get (too) boring. If you have half a heart, you will care for the characters and although I cringed a bit at the depiction of another "simple black man", you can't accuse the movie of racism, not after they show his lawyer. Overall a nice movie, but...Amongst other things, the movie expects you to believe in miracles, not just one, a bucket load of them.Goody prison wardens and goody prison guards. The guards are all the same, full of mercy and the nicest guys in town. I was half expecting a song and dance act of the guards down the aisle with the prisoners joining in and the mouse doing pirouettes in front of them.The only 2 people in this movie that are "bad" you can only feel sorry for. One is a deranged psycho that doesn't seem to enter sanity or reason for a second, the other is a prison guard that is a little jerk that gets slapped around all the time and even tries to change his ways... then gets his feelings hurt, damn.The movie is clearly anti-death penalty as I am, but this isn't the way to present the case.