Although the central character is American mercenary Tom Cruise, the story of The Last Samurai is about the little known to occidentals event of the Samurai revolt of 1877 led by Saigo Takamori who operates under a different character name and is played flawlessly by Ken Watanabe. Changing his name much like the way Clarence Darrow and William Jennings Bryan were under different names in Inherit the Wind allowed for some dramatic and historic license.Japan was undergoing a tremendous transformation at this point in time. The United States had with Commodore Matthew Perry's voyage in 1853 opened Japan and cracked her isolationist policy. Over 200 years before the Japanese government had instigated a policy of isolationism in regard to the countries of Europe. It seems as though they looked askance at the Christian missionaries and their activities. They put an almost total embargo on trade or contact of any kind with the west.The Dutch who had very specifically not sent any missionaries to Japan were allowed some extremely limited trading rights in the city of Shiminoseki during this period. So in a limited sense the Japanese kept up with western technological developments. Firearms in fact unlike in the film were in some use in Japan even at the time of Perry's voyage. The Samurai did make some use of them.Cruise is an American Civil War and Indian War hero who's making a living shilling for the Winchester Rifle company. He gets an offer to go to Japan to train a modern army for a whole lot of money and he accepts. In between Perry's voyage and the events of this film, a new Emperor came on the throne. The Emperor Meiji was anxious indeed that his country catch up with the rest of the world and not become a colony of some modern technologically advanced western country. He also did not want to lose sight of old traditions. Duelling advisers competed for his heart and mind in the film and in real life.Cruise's trained troops the first time they're in battle with the professional samurai turn and run. He's taken prisoner, but while in captivity grows to respect and admire Watanabe and what he represents. He also falls in love with a Japanese woman and I have to say his romance made a whole lot more sense than the one John Wayne had in The Barbarian and the Geisha.The final battle scene is impressive, the samurai's own Alamo to put it in American terms. In defeat Saigo Takamori though a rebel became a folk hero in Japan. The Last Samurai is a great story and Americans should see this story about a Japan they only know from World War II films, both good and bad. Tom Cruise should be given a lot of credit for using his star power to bring this story to American audiences.

A fascinating and inspiring epic, The Last Samurai is a powerful film. The story follows a disillusioned Civil War veteran who's recruited to train the Japanese army in Western warfare as they prepare to take on a Samurai rebellion. Tom Cruise and Ken Watanabe lead the cast and give excellent performances. The directing is also quite remarkable, and captures the spiritual aspects of nature and of the Samurai culture. Additionally, the writing does an effective job at depicting the culture clashes, and at developing the characters. The score by Hans Zimmer is brilliantly done as well, perfectly complementing the film and enhancing the themes. The Last Samurai is a smart and passionate drama that's well-crafted and compelling.

After my third viewing, I can finally admit that this film has me. I enjoyed it during its theatrical run, enjoyed it more the second time around, and now, I can only say that I love it. The cast is exemplary. Tom Cruise is so good in this film that it is very often easy to forget he is Tom Cruise. Easily his most powerful role and best performance since Jerry Maguire. Ken Watanabe, however, is incredible in every scene - acting with a rare sensitivity and intensity and breathing life into a character much larger and more human than the grand story of which he is a part. Though the entire cast is excellent, I feel that I must also single out Koyuki and Shichinosuke Nakamura for, respectively, the female lead and the emperor, for the subtle strength and believability they each give their very challenging roles.The story takes place during the early modernization of Japan, in the 1870s and 1880s. The Emperor's power has been weakened by the political and economic power of his cabinet, by his young age, and by the political influence of the United States and other western powers pulling the strings of his cabinet and supplying modern weaponry and tactics to the modernizing Japanese army. Cruise plays Captain Allgren, an alcoholic veteran who has seen and participated in too many massacres of innocent people, and is offered an opportunity to reclaim some of his honor by helping to train the Japanese military in the use of firearms. When he arrives in Japan, we learn that the first test of the Japanese army and its new weapons will be against a rebellious group of samurai who believe themselves to be in the service of the Emperor and Japan, but resist the Emperor's cabinet and the influence of western nations. In the power void left by a passive emperor, Japan seems poised to enter into a civil war against its own values, faith and honor. During the first attack on the Samurai, Allgren is captured by the Samurai and begins a spiritual, physical and philosophical journey which will bring him a level of self-respect his own culture could never supply.My interpretation of this journey is that Allgren has found a place and people that offer him redemption, where, in his own world, he can find none. But Allgren's is only a small part of the story - which ultimately revolves around what is right for Japan, for the subjectivity of a whole nation, and how to portray such a subject from its own perspective. Traditional Japan is treated with empathy here, not aggrandizing exaggeration, as some of the film's critics seem to suggest. This is not a film about what is objectively right and wrong, but a film about struggling to understand and empower tradition as a means to control and benefit from change. I find no grand moral statement here, but rather an intense, sympathetic, human drama with a strong sense of honor and sacrifice.Edward Zwick has made a film which operates well at every level, carrying simple but profound philosophical ideas, but avoiding the mistake of making these ideas and the characters that express them super-heroic. Ultimately, this beautifully shot film conveys powerful messages about war, tradition, ethics, honor and culture, which, though not particularly original, are sensitively and intelligently brought forward. There is a lot of action, including some remarkably well-acted sword fighting and martial artistry, but none of it seems unnecessary and the whole film is truly tightly woven. My highest recommendation.

An engrossing film, with great performances, stunning visuals, amazing action sequences, incredible soundtrack and a satisfying, but predictable story.

A note for the uninitiated: this is not Braveheart (1995) in a different guise. Instead, this is a far more sophisticated piece of art, a film that makes history a subject well worth investigating further. With the Last Samurai, director Edward Zwick has created a film perfectly showcasing heroism at its fullest. Tom Cruise stars in (arguably) his finest role to date, as the American Captain Nathan Algren, who is captured by the samurai warriors he is training the Japanese army to defeat. At first reluctant to explore the new world he has been pulled into, Algren slowly begins to see that perhaps these samurai are not the "barbarians" that he has been led to believe they are. Usually when you see a Tom Cruise film, the mega-star status shines through instead of the character he is playing, but in the Last Samurai Cruise has presented himself admirably, as the viewer is sucked into the samurai world with him. He at once shows strength and bravery, but also compassion and a weakness of spirit, not to mention a fine sense of humour, usually directed at his samurai guard, "Bob". Algren's development from a drunken waste to a samurai himself is utterly compelling, and comes through at its best when the samurai village is attacked by ninja's, and Algren instantly decides to side with his captor's leader, Katsumoto.The film wastes no time getting to the point of Algren's capture, but when he gets to the samurai's village, the film takes its time showing the samurai's way of life, and many people may think that this is where the film begins to drag, but this is not the case. Throughout much of his time in the village Cruise says very little, but his silent wonderment at the samurai life gives off a dramatic effect unreachable by many effects-driven blockbusters, and it is this part of the film that Zwick shows off his talents as a director. However, the real star of the show is Ken Watanabe's samurai leader, Katsumoto. He is the perfect actor to play a character driven by the need to keep up the ways of his ancestors, and to stop Japan being pulled into an industrial revolution, however futile this may be. He is the true embodiment of the samurai code, never giving up, and sticking to his principles even in the face of certain defeat. Watanabe is a hugely convincing actor, making you want to root for him all the way, despite the fact that the samurai are actually fighting against the emperor.This film is an action film, though. Whilst there is plenty of drama, Zwick proves himself to be an admirable action-director, whether handling the large battles of the samurai versus Japan's army, or the more intimate one-on-one fights that Algren is involved in during his time in the samurai village. The screenplay is very well written; not surprising as it was co-written by John Logan, the writer for the immensely popular Gladiator. Cruise is well backed up by the supporting actors, including Billy Connelly and Timothy Spall, in a film that has been carefully crafted rather than slapped together, producing a film that, despite its relatively unimpressive box office success, is still one of the finest mainstream films that has come out of America for a long time. Rated: 9/10 More reviews at: http://www.thelazylounge.net

In a bid to try to improve trade links between Japan and the US Captain Nathan Algren (Tom Cruise) is hired to train an army to overthrow a rebellious group of samurai led by their leader Katsumoto (Ken Watanabe). However, the army that Algren had been training encounter the Samurai before their training has been completed and the army end up being overpowered and defeated by the highly trained Samurai. Algren is the only survivor of this battle and in recognition of his bravery and determination Katsumoto spares his life and invites him to stay with the Samurai. During his time with the Samurai, Algren learns quite a bit about their culture and eventually embraces it and fights back against those that had originally hired him to overthrow the Samurai.Tom Cruise's performances and films tend to vary greatly in quality so I do tend to approach a lot of his films with caution. I can safely say that this is one of his better films and also one of his better performances. Cruise is well-known for bringing a sort of smug arrogance to a lot of his roles and he definitely brings some of that to his role as Captain Algren - although there's only a whiff of it here rather than full on smugness that we've seen from him before. Director and screenwriter Zwick gives Cruise a character he can really sink his teeth into - Algren is obnoxious and rude at the start and shows very little respect for his employees. He's the same with the Samurai at the start, but I think the difference is that the Samurai show him respect and allow him to embrace their culture. The general saying in life is that to 'gain respect you must first give respect' and I got the feeling that this was one of the messages contained within this film.The first 20 minutes or so of this film are slick and fast-paced, but the momentum does slow down where Algren is staying with the Samurai. Although the pace slackens at this point the film never becomes boring and Algren's narrative and the exploration of the Samurai culture were interesting enough to keep me involved with the story. The only criticism I have with this aspect of the story was when the ninjas attacked the Samurai - I just didn't see the point of it and it also seemed to add nothing to the story, but this really is a minor criticism.Much like Seven Samurai, The Last Samurai is a slow-burning film that rewards the viewers patience with a spectacular closing act that is epic, clever and heart-breaking. Technical aspects of the film are also superb most notably the beautiful Japanese scenery and wonderful cinematography.Clearly there are some politics involved here, but the politics are side-lined for the most part to make way for an interesting story about one man identifying more with an alleged 'rebellion' group over his own people. I've no idea how much of this story is true - it certainly references real life people such as General Custer and real-life events such as the battle of little bighorn, but never says anywhere that it's based on a true story. Truth be told, it doesn't matter to me whether the story is true or not because the film has a good story, it's moving at times, it's beautiful to look at, has some wonderful performances and to top it all the final battle is fantastic. Therefore it's very much worth seeing on its own merits.

This seems a divisive film, for what it is (a story..not a historical reenactment based to the letter on another culture from another time period) it is good. Not groundbreaking, certainly not awful as some make out, but good. I enjoyed it and I didn't at any point feel bored or want to switch it off. I've seen Zatoichi, 13 assassin's, Blade of the immortal etc (these are great samurai movies) this movie does try to be respectful or informed of Japanese culture for that time period. It may get some things wrong but again; it's a story, not a more realistic reenactment of Japanese culture, or politics like 13 assassin's for instance.Certainly worth a watch. If you want to see a painful, almost propaganda take on the another culture, watch Ip Man 2 - 4's take on the west.

"The Last Samurai" 2003 and "The Last of the Dogmen" (1995 d: Tab Murphy, with Tom Berenger and Barbara Hershey in the lead) are both films with the theme of the 'last' of warrior spirits (one is Samurai, one is Cheyenne). The production of The Last Samurai is well worth seeing - the glory of a large-scale Hollywood production it is. From the research of the historical Japanese Meiji period, the mannerisms, the way different classes of people dress, the settings, the battle weapons and armory, how the Samurai train and fight, to the study and appreciation of the Art of War - where men of honor and integrity in service to the Emperor is the thing to die for. The film title in three Kanji characters means The Way of the Warrior (Samurai). The one character shown on screen at the very beginning (romanization: Sze) meant in the service of the King. Hence the definition of Watanabe's Samurai lifelong one true goal - to serve his Emperor, one and only, and to die in the service of the Emperor would be an honor.The film, directed by Ed Zwick, is truly a combined labor of love of everyone involved. From the producer-lead actor Tom Cruise and Zwick's film-making partner Marshall Herskovitz, cinematography by John Toll and film score by Hans Zimmer, to the costuming details, diverse casting, location scouting all the way to New Zealand and training of the supporting cast - even the official Web site with extensive production notes - all provide enhanced appreciation of this remarkable film. The storyline and drama of "The Last Samurai" evoke various level of emotions, pulling the heartstrings of the audience with high emotional energy - suspense, sadness, smiles, empathy, joy."Kagemusha" by Akira Kurosawa, of course, is the ultimate grandeur of a historic Samurai epic. "The Last Samurai" is comparable in drama and treatment if not with equal passionate efforts all round. Both are available on DVD with special features of audio commentary and the making of 'featurette' and more.

Glad to know how samurai lived and loved bravely. Tom cruise acting was super. The movie's screenplay was brilliant that make you sit edge of the seat till end.

Directed by Edward Zwick, "The Last Samurai" is the story of Civil War veteran Nathan Algren (Tom Cruise), a man who is fighting his inner demons that originated from some actions against Native Americans that he didn't feel so good about. So he drinks a lot and is a freelance military adviser. His latest assignment is to go to Tokyo with some former colleagues and train the Emperor's troops in modern weaponry so they can defeat the last of the country's Samurai. During their first battle, he is captured by the Samurai who then take him under their wing, helping him heal his wounds and teaching him how to fight, etc. When the time comes to return back to his "rightful" place, he makes the choice to fight with the Samurai, who he now relates to most of all.I'll say it right out of the box I really didn't like this movie that much. The film drowns in clichés: The slow motion fight scenes, the shots of Cruise in silhouette at sundown, practicing his moves, the screams of "Noooooooooo" as the incredibly wounded men charge, and Cruise getting knocked down five times during one of his early sparring matches, yet refusing to stay down because he's just a scrappy guy these are just a couple of the things I found myself rolling my eyes at. I rolled my eyes at those scenes, I chuckled at the fact that he managed to keep a perfectly trimmed beard and clothes that miraculously cleaned themselves after a fight in the rain and mud, and was actually howling during Cruise's detox scene in which he yells "Sake!!!!!!!!!!" over and over. But I was downright confused after the fight in the alley between Omura's henchmen and Cruise; we experienced the fight once, then suddenly he goes slo-mo and we have to watch the entire fight all over again. Why?! Don't even get me started on the ending. When he walked through the door to chat with the Emperor I almost fell out of my seat; I couldn't believe the film would seriously end that way.I did not hate everything about the film. I thought that Ken Watanabe was phenomenal, and I really liked the fact that they spoke a lot of Japanese. I can't stand it when films think we assume that everyone in the world speaks flawless English. I think that the decision to keep the native language as pervasive as it was, was a good thing. The ninja scene was good, and there were also some great shots; particularly landscapes. However, these things only raise my opinion up from an extremely low position, they don't save the film for me. It was ironic that I watched this when I did because I watched "Rashomon" the day before, a film that was made 55 years prior, on a tiny fraction of the budget of "The Last Samurai", which got me thinking about Kurosawa. Of course, it is very difficult to compare Kurosawa to most filmmakers of this genre because he is pure genius, but conversely, it is sad that a film that does have the benefit of finances and precedents could make such a pale comparison. Also, when did someone decide that Tony Goldwyn was going to be THE bad guy in every movie ever made? It's become almost cliché at this point; go figure that he would be a part of THIS film.I suppose if you like Tom Cruise, historical epics, or action films you should see "The Last Samurai", but it is barely mediocre, and although I had low expectations going in, I was still very disappointed. Merely because of the handful of positive aspects of the film, I give it a 5/10, a generous assignation in my opinion.--Shelly