Rarely has a film so frightened an audience as "The Terminator." After its release in 1984, the extremely low-budget sci-fi actioner broke box office records, and gave audiences something more to fear. Through the years, there have been stories of nature's beasts, of creatures from another world, and so on and so forth. "Jaws" was terrifying because it seemed so possible. And if "Jaws" is terrifying, "The Terminator" is horrific. The realization of this hit-man machine dawned on everyone watching the film. In a time of exceeding technology, how long will it be before man is overtaken by the very things he created? And that is what is particularly scary about a film like "The Terminator." In "The Terminator," Arnold plays a cyborg, Cyberdyne system model 101, a T800, whatever that means. He has been sent back in time to assassinate the soon-to-be-mother of the future world leader, John Connor (who battles the machines in the future and leads an uprising). If Connor is killed, then there will be no one to oppose the machines of the future, and they will triumph. This would be pretty bad. So the future John Connor has sent a protector back in time, to help save his mother. Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) tells Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) about the machine that is trying to kill her. "It can't be bargained with, it can't feel pain or mercy, and it will stop at absolutely nothing until you are dead!" Talk about a bad day.The Terminator hunts them down time after time, including the famous police station scene, where Arnie says, "I'll be back," and returns moments later, crashing through the wall in a car. He then takes on a whole squad of cops, but don't worry, Sarah and Reese escape slightly unscathed.There are countless classic scenes in "The Terminator." You will see them spoofed your entire life. From the image of the Terminator, to the lines they speak, to the scenes they act out. Everything is spoofed. And the film is worthy of its fame.On the special edition "T2" DVD (the second one), there is an on-set documentary for the making of the "Terminator 2" 3-D ride at Universal Studios. As the camera moves around, it shows Cameron detailing what he wants in this scene. Some guy suggests something else, and Cameron gets a tone. "No, no, that won't work. You do it like this - we come off here, he walks around..." etc. The point is, he's a perfectionist, and a demanding director. Some directors are a bit too easy, and don't really care where their films are going. But James Cameron seems to have a clear vision of what he wants, and he goes around making sure it gets done exactly the way he wants it to be done. And it shows in his work. It's hard to find any mistakes in a James Cameron film. And it's even harder to find plot holes.Some people say "Terminator 2 - Judgment Day" is better than the original. It's hard to choose, because the two films are very different. I view "The Terminator" as more of a deep, intellectually-consuming, dark thriller. I view "Judgment Day" as an action film, with a more or less recycled plot. (The plot is still good, but it's still the same, too.) It's hard to choose a favorite because they are so different. On "T2" the budget is ten times larger, probably even more than that. But if you want a horror/thriller, "The Terminator" is better for you. If you want special-effects and a really fun time, see "T2." They're both excellent films."The Terminator" is a great movie. It is one of my favorites; it is terrifying, horrifying, and 100 % entertaining. And unlike a lot of other cheap actioners out there, "The Terminator" has some thought put into its plot, and that is what separates it from the rest of its kind.

It was funny to read that this film nearly avoided coming to our screens. With many number of studios rejecting the script and story, Terminator was nearly terminated before getting of the ground. However, one company, ORION pictures, the last resort for this movie, loved the premise of a robot running around as a man, trying to kill the mother of the savior of planet earth. Thank goodness they saw that it was a good script, because it become one of the great films of the 1980's.In 2029, giant super computers dominate the planet, hell bent on exterminating the human race! And to destroy man's future by changing the past they send an indestructible cyborg – a terminator – back in time to kill Sarah Connor, the woman who's unborn son will become mankind's only hope. Can Sarah protect herself from this unstoppable menace to save the life of her unborn child? Or will the human race be extinguished by one mean hunk of mutant metal?Well this film is a real blast. The cast is extraordinary. This is probably Arnold Schwarzenegger's most popular role. I cannot see why it isn't. He was great as the Cyborg that was walking around, as a killing machine. His facial expressions are sketched in my memory for life. I love the scene where see a close of his face in the police car, it was brilliant. Schwarzenegger, originally a body builder, he has had a wonderful career in the movie industry. His other great films include Predator, End Of Days, Total Recall, Eraser and was impressive in his role as Mr. Freeze in Batman and Robin. His career was on hold for sometime a while back, due to injury, but he is back and I hope we get to see more of his acting talents.Then you have the others in the cast. The other stand out in this film for me is Linda Hamilton. She was suited perfectly to the role of the feeble Sarah Connor, who is going to be the mother of the child who is going to save the world. Hamilton has had a mixed career, with her filmography including the enjoyable Dante's Peak. The good guy in Terminator was Michael Biehn, who played out the role of Sarah Connor's protector, Reese Kyle. He was very good in his role. His other movies include Aliens, The Rock, Crash and an uncredited role in the great musical, Grease. The director of Terminator, namely James Cameron, did a great job with this film. Considering he thought up the idea from a sick bed, had it rejected that many times, it is a great credit to him. Most directors would have given up on it, but he stuck with it till he got to our screens. Thank goodness he did. The story of the Terminator is an interesting one. It has a very biblical feel to it. One man sent to help save the world, with the initials J.C., fascinated me immensely. Cameron and Co writer Gale Anne Hurd did a fantastic script for this film. There are some unbelievable scenes in this movie. None more so then the vision we see of the metal Cyborg walking from the truck fire. The vision we see from this scene is one of the main reasons why we have the Terminator. James Cameron explained that he wanted a scene in a movie that has a machine walking from a fire in menacing fashion. He got this spot on, if you ask me. Then there are some other great scenes such as the tense stand offs that the evil cyborg has with all the humans he comes into contact with, including the first confrontation with Sarah, in addition to the meeting he has with Reese. I also enjoyed the scene where he goes through the police station. Of course this scene has one of Hollywood's most famous lines in it, that of Arnie's 'I'll be back', a classic. The final confrontation between Sarah and the Cyborg is another tension filled scene of this great movie.So, what more can I say about this movie? It is simply brilliant. I have asked many people their opinion on this film. One such response about it was, that is too 'eightish', and that comment is fair enough. If you have the chance, grab a copy of Terminator on DVD, as it is a great 2 disc set. I must admit the first time I saw it, I did not appreciate Terminator like I do now. Perhaps I found it a tad violent, but that is to be expected of a film that is called Terminator. This movie was a great success and deserved to be with all the great work that was put into it. However more was to come, a film that was to become one of the greatest sequels in movie history. Arnie was to deliver on his promise of 'I'll be back'!Rating: 4.5 stars or 9/10

The Terminator is one of the best action movies of all time in my opinion. It doesn't set a single foot wrong and it also kicked off a wonderful saga. Without this, there would be no Terminator 2. Think about that. As such, this movie is fondly remembered by many people and it has been the subject of many quotes and spoofs over the years. Why doesn't it set a foot wrong? It is thrilling, almost always entertaining and filled with insane explosions, which more or less makes a good action movie. But 'The Terminator' stands head and shoulders above the rest of it's genre, because of it's well thought-out plot, splendid acting and an eerily memorable music score which gives you a reason to watch the credits at the end.Now to analysing why the plot is so well-thought out. Well, for one thing, the concept of preventing or setting in stone the future by going back in time was one which wasn't really explored in those days. By exploring it, the Terminator was offering something different, something which has inspired films such as Back to the Future (read the plot synopsis for that film, there are a few similarities). The notion of the final battle of a future war being fought in 'our present', not in the future, between one member of opposing sides, in this case a man and a machine, is also an intriguing one and sets the stage for an exciting battle royale.I'll run down the plot while I'm here. Sarah Connor, a young woman in her 20's, is the protagonist of the film and our two from the future, Kyle Reese and the Terminator, revolve around her. Reese, who is a battle-hardened soldier who has led a hard life in the wasteland which is the future, must protect Sarah, while the Terminator, an unstoppable cyborg, must kill her, in order to kill her unborn son, the leader of the future resistance.All of this leads to some thrilling action scenes and insane explosions, topped off by music scores which add to the tension and excitement. The movie purrs into action quickly, but really kicks off at a disco, where Reese and the Terminator have a shootout, resulting in a city-wide drive-by chase involving the police which doesn't really let up until Reese and Sarah are arrested. During the lull in the chase scene, Reese tells Sarah about himself, the Terminator and their general predicament, which is fairly realistic. The next action scene is the infamous police station massacre which everyone seems to talk about whenever they discuss this movie. I can understand why, too. The Terminator pretty much kills every cop in his path with the greatest of ease, either with the AK-47, his shotgun, or both. He also ends up cutting the power and setting the station on fire, again adding to the tension and excitement. The last action scene which, like the one in T2, is a chase which leads to a final showdown in a building. It is a slight letdown, but it is still an intense scene. I will refrain from spoiling the ending, as this is too good a movie to be spoiled.All of the acting fits the bill perfectly. As in T2, there is not a single bad performance to be found. Michael Biehn delivers a remarkably intense performance as Kyle Reese, acting like a typical human would in his situation. He displays his range of emotions at the right times, from passionate to worried to unyielding. It is a wonder that his only other major movie is 'Aliens' and that he is starring in stuff like 'Clockstoppers' these days. Linda Hamilton again does well as Sarah Connor, displaying an innocent woman who shows over the course of the film why she is John Connor's mother, displaying previously unheralded steel at the crunch. The support cast isn't too bad either (Dr. Silberman makes his first appearance). But again, the best performance in the film belongs to the bad guy, in this case, Arnold Schwarzenegger. He acts like a killing machine should; incredibly cold, sterile, soulless and unyielding. His facial expression never changes throughout the film and his physical appearance makes him slightly more imposing and intimidating than the Liquid Terminator. He also commences his famous one-liners which have been the subject of many a spoof, including (no, especially) "I'll be back." This is undoubtedly his best performance, even though it is not his only good one.I will compliment all involved on making a movie which still manages to look good despite having a low budget. I've seen pretty bad-looking movies with fairly high budgets (read: Scooby-Doo), but never good-looking movies with low budgets.In the end, The Terminator is a masterful action movie which laid the groundwork for the equally brilliant Terminator 2. If you asked me whether I preferred The Terminator or T2, I would say T2 because I am more familiar with it, otherwise, these two would be on a level footing. If you haven't seen this movie and are an action movie fan, then see it immediately. You won't be disappointed. Trust me.5/5 stars

The Terminator is a science fiction classic, creating the iconic villain and starting what has become a quintessential sci-fi franchise. The film has unfortunately dated a little over the years; the editing, sound effects and dialogue show it's age. However the concept and ideas have certainly endured and continue to inform science fiction to this day.

Candid admission time: despite selling myself as a fan of action cinema there are two classic genre films I've neglected my whole life. Predator is one, and The Terminator is another. Recently because of this blog I decided to watch both in the hopes of giving a fresh review from a new perspective. Alas, I couldn't finish Predator. I didn't think it was particularly entertaining in the action department, I cared little for the characters, the Predator itself was threatening but not enough for me to be glued. I considered it more a slasher film with buff men in lieu of stupid teens.The Terminator falls into the same boat in a way. It's a horror film more so than action, a kind of slasher/chase movie where we follow our heroes in their escape from the monster. Unlike Predator which hides the creature from us, The Terminator focuses on the cyborg hit-man and makes sure we know what he looks like and how daunting he can be.Sarah Connor is a waitress in Los Angeles when her life is shattered by the appearance of two men from the future, one a resistance fighter, another a Terminator, a cybernetic organism. The future is bleak with nuclear holocaust caused by the rise of the machines sending humans underground. With the machines ruling, a resistance fighter named John Connor has become a hero, throwing a monkey wrench into the inorganic creatures plans. Facing defeat thanks to this man, the machines send a Terminator into the past to eliminate Connor's mother and reset the timeline. Somehow one of the resistance managed to go through as well to protect Sarah Connor.Despite the futuristic ideas and plot the movie itself is very light science fiction and operates more in the horror genre. Sarah Connor is completely unprepared for what she is about to face and Arnie's Terminator is like Friday the 13ths Jason, an unstoppable brute who is seemingly unkillable. It makes for some compelling sequences of destructive action, the Terminator shooting up a police station being a particular highlight.As this is a site dedicated to action critique, I'd be remiss not to mention the editing making many action sequences quite awkward. The very first series of murders has the Terminator kill a trio of punks. What could have been a quick and effective assault is a jankily edited nightmare that hardly makes sense. As the movie progresses, I found the editing got increasingly better but overall it's another case of overediting ruining the effectiveness of action.Another reason I wasn't as enthralled by the action as others is my disdain for what I call "Industrial Action". These movies are typically dark, ugly affairs that focus on abandoned places and industrial areas for settings. Cannon Films was a constant perpetrator of making films that felt inorganic purely because of the settings. Cobra is a prime example and even a film like Robocop, which I do quite enjoy, comes across as bland and uninteresting because of the setting. All of these films take place in metropolitan areas but nothing feels lived in or real. Even in Terminator, the chase sequences aren't as compelling as they could be purely because of how staged it all seems. I don't care how late at night it is, there would be a lot more cars on the streets than the movie portrays. It pulls me out of the action.The other facets of The Terminator are just as artificial in my eyes. The plot is interesting as a concept but goes nowhere interesting. I'm sure T2 will expand upon the mythology built up in this first outing, but as a stand alone product The Terminator doesn't invest me in the film's world. The stakes feel nonexistent because Sarah Connor is so removed from the future war against the machines and there isn't enough of a connection thematically. We see the war and its effects, but they aren't tied into the events of 1984 enough.What ties the past and future together is Kyle, the resistance fighter protecting Sarah. The problem here is that Kyle is a weak character and the romance that buds between himself and Sarah is poorly executed and extremely two-dimensional. Sarah, for her part, has some character development but she doesn't exactly feel well-rounded and isn't interesting either. When the artificial killing machine antagonist is the most compelling character in your film, you're missing the point.I don't have a lot to say about The Terminator because I didn't feel it provided me with anything to really talk about. And that's the sign, to me, of an average film. I don't think The Terminator is bad but I do think it's two-dimensional and lacking in a lot of departments. I mentioned with Speed that you can turn your brain off and enjoy it. That was a fast paced, dumb action movie though. This is trying to have a little more gravitas and meat on the bones and I really do not think it works.

Entertaining sci-fi action-drama.Revolutionary special effects are what makes this movie special. The effects, from 1984, are still good even by today's standards. The plot is not bad either. Unlike most of James Cameron's movies, which are purely style over substance (yes, I'm thinking of Titanic and Avatar in particular), this movie has a decent plot. Not entirely watertight, but it exists and is reasonably coherent and plausible and not merely a medium for linking action scenes.Though he had done the two Conan movies before this, it is this movie that made Arnold Schwarzenegger a star. Not there for his acting abilities, or linguistic skill, he was every bit the action figure (not quite action hero...). Linda Hamilton was solid in her role (though her hair style shows this movie was made in the 80s...). Michael Biehn was OK, though sometimes came off as too over-the-top in his performance.

Pretty good for 1984. Special effects were good. Plot was easy to follow. I would definitely see T2

The 1984 classic, an astounding production. One of Cameron's early works, and yet one of his best. The ultimate thing that puts this film on a whole another level above so many other flops is the awesome blend of realism and atmosphere. When I first saw it as a kid, it just felt so real to me. And now, ten years later,t that feeling hasn't left me. Using his camera in a way only he can do, Cameron instills a sense of dread in every scene, something good old Arnold did quite well.Michael Biehn and Linda Hamilton also did extraordinarily so, just putting the right amount of emotional touches to their performances. Its an involving film throughout that never fails to hit hard, even in light of some terrible and CGI loaded sequels. And who could forget the score, which only added to the already excellent tension. My favorite scene? No doubt, in a disturbing way, the scene where the T-101 is repairing itself, and the lighting is just so perfect gives off a feeling of absolute fear. Or perhaps the scene in the club where Reese first engages the Terminator, either way ingenious and unforgettable moments in film history.A classic in every way.

This is said to be a timeless and iconic must watch classic, if you are into James Cameron and sci fy. So i finally decided to watch this film. So i had pretty high expectations on it.The acting is pretty average, but feels pretty authentic.Manuscript, filming and soundtrack is very good!It really has a good and intriguing sci fy concept!The first 20 minutes of the film is very good and well made, captivating and very intriguing! And it gets better and better the longer into the film you get!The story is very well put together! Very good directed! Very clever made! Storytelling is very good!A very good, truly timeless, and classic sci fy!A extremely very well made film for the time when it was made! The work into the details are really very well made! Its really a film before it time. Special effects are amazing for a film being made in the 80s.Its a thought provoking against modern AI and how far we should go with it.I really recommend and i really think its a film that you should have seen in your life.