Okay, so after years of just hearing about this film and not seeing it (I have no excuses) I finally put it on. And wow, it's an absolutely fantastic film.Ill start by giving my reason why I haven't watched for so long and that's because I was told it was really complicated and confusing. And I'll be honest, 10 minutes into this film I was completely out of whack. I had absolutely no idea what's happening. But after around half an hour or so it becomes really apparent what's happening and the story just becomes more and more interesting. So if you're worried about complexity of the plot. Don't, you'll be fine.The ending as well I liked. You honestly don't know how this film will end, I was 10 minutes from the film ending and I still didn't know what was going to go down. But it's done really nicely and closes off any unanswered questions.
Watching films like Donny Darko you end up confused by the end and have several questions whereas this doesn't have this and I prefer that. (Donny Darko is great by the way, I was just giving an example).Beyond that I thought the acting was really good, the managed to pull off good character development and the changes of memory were quite obvious so there wasn't any overlapping or confusion on what you were watching.It's just overall an absolutely fantastic film and I highly recommend watching this if you haven't done so already.

Every so often we all seem to move away from the usual nothings we talk about amongst our friends, and instead get into a deeply philosophical conversation about the workings of Chaos Theory and the existence of parallel universes. No? Okay, just me then. In any case, this discussion just the other day led to a friend recommending The Butterfly Effect, a film that puts both a stylistic and sinister spin on the idea that even the mere flapping of a butterfly's wings can result in drastic changes in another place or time. Being initially sceptical because of the generally negative reaction from critics, I was certainly not disappointed by film's end.Ashton Kutcher couldn't be more different that his concurrent role as the dimwitted Kelso from That '70s Show in his lead performance as Evan Treborn, a man who has suffered blackouts since his childhood, and realises that he can access and relive vital gaps in his memory through the help of other sources like journals or images. He uses this skill to, in his eyes, right the wrongs of the past. Namely, injustices that were performed upon his friends Lenny and Tommy and only love Kayleigh (Amy Smart). What he doesn't realise is that the changes he thinks are made for the better actually result in a severely changed future that threatens his own life.Without trying to sound like a sadist, The Butterfly Effect excels in presenting a consistently dark, melancholy atmosphere. Indeed, there is hardly a happy moment in the entire film, although that may be untrue depending on which ending you watch (more on that later). Any event that looks as if it might provide a slim ray of hope for Evan to make things right is quickly dashed by a sudden escalation of the plot, maintaining the viewer's interest the whole way through. The film doesn't shy away from heavy subject matter either, including prostitution, murder, paedophilia and drug use, all of which culminates in an enjoyably gritty, underground tone.Positively, the menacing nature of the movie isn't weighed down by comic relief. I suppose when many of us think of this sort of plot, we first think of the Simpsons Halloween special when Homer invents the time-travelling toaster. Not knowing quite how dark the film would turn out to be, I was concerned The Butterfly Effect would go down a similar path, in which Evan keeps returning to the present to find that all humans have grown wings or Pauly D has become President. Instead, any changes are limited to the persona of the characters, rather than altering the physical environment, which was definitely the professional path to take.The pacing is another strength. For a film that comes in well under two hours, directors Eric Bress and J. Mackye Gruber deserve credit for packing a lot in, and doing it well. Certainly, some thrillers benefit from slow-moving scenes to draw suspense (the superb Eyes Wide Shut, for example) but Butterfly manages to combine compounding urgency with engaging character development in constructing a fast-moving film that requires both thought and stamina to decipher, without being needlessly confusing.Oddly, the film possesses four different final scenes, and so the lasting message of the movie may differ depending on the copy viewed. My favourite ending is the 'official' one applied to the theatrical release. It is satisfying, yet open-ended, as is the case with its alternate cut. Another is uncharacteristically upbeat and illogical, perhaps suggested in the editing room as a way of appeasing confused screen-test viewers. But if you really want to get down to brass tax, go with the Director's Cut: a far more morbid conclusion with a surreal twist. Intrigued? Don't let me stop you.*There's nothing I love more than a bit of feedback, good or bad. So drop me a line on jnatsis@iprimus.com.au and let me know what you thought of my review.*

First of all, a fair warning to EVERYONE... this movie is NOT for all audiences. The "R" rating was very well earned in this one; you'll be thinking about how seriously twisted the movie dares to go LONG after you leave.If you are mature enough to get past the fact that this movie introduces themes that most movies nowadays are too hesitant to venture into, this movie is a beautiful and moving piece of art.I, like maybe most everyone that went to see it, went off of the trailer that it was just another "going back in time to change the future" movie, which has been done before.This one is COMPLETELY different.The Butterfly Effect starts actually in the early stages of each character's life, which I think is effective. You don't really see Ashton Kutcher or Amy Smart until about 30 minutes into the movie, and just when you think the movie won't get any more sick and twisted... you figure out what's ACTUALLY going on during Evan's childhood blackouts.Every character is built from the ground up, and they maintain true to the plot, even if their roles get switched up a bit.Some might say that special effects weren't really needed for this movie, but its the special effects that make this all believable.Every actor in this movie pulls off their parts just right (I feel sorry for the kid that plays Tommy.. I won't throw a spoiler - see it!), and they all come together to make a masterpiece. I was surprised this movie got so many bad reviews.If you throw the fact that time-travel isn't possible, and that there will always be obvious plot holes in a movie such as this one, and are ready for an emotional roller coaster (you'll either cry or grimace about twice the amount of times you crack a smile), go see this beautiful movie.Entertainment: 9.0/10 Overall score: 9.5/10

What if you could go back to major junctions in your life and take the other path? What if there's an alternate life for you somewhere, out there, where the cumulative sum of your choices leads to a better reality, a happier and more fulfilling existence? On the flip-side - what if, at the end of the day, you really can't achieve a solid grip on these things, no matter how hard you try?A great deal of science fiction works of art have tried to approach these meaningful questions throughout the years, all presenting many philosophical ideas and notions as to how one man can change his own fate, for better or for worse. In this surprisingly good sci-fi adventure from 2004, directors Eric Bress and J. Mackye Gruber (who are also behind the screenplay of Final Destination 2) raise all these questions once again, but use a different angle this time around. Time travel is not the issue here. Instead, our lead protagonist, Evan Treborn (portrayed by Hollywood prankster Ashton Kutcher – but more on that later) leads his whole life up until his early 20's without knowing he has a rare medical condition that seemingly helps him shut away traumatic incidents that occurred throughout his childhood and adolescence years. All he remembers from these various occasions are bizarre blackouts. But when a blast from his past comes back into his life only to leave it ever so tragically (Kayleigh Miller, portrayed by the lovely Amy Smart who we've since seen in films such as Just Friends and Crank), Evan learns that he can return to those important lost moments in his life and re-inhabit his younger body, thus changing the present and future. However, with every shift in the past comes an alternate present that may seem better at first, but is in fact a far harsher reality than the original one Evan has left.What truly touched me about this film was the essence in which it captured the troublesome youth of my generation, that was born in the 1980's, grew up in the 1990's, and is ever since trying to adapt to the ever changing reality in which we all live in. Here, one man tries to alter all this, and his own personal journey is parallel in many ways to the journey many young people go through nowadays. Part of capturing this Generation X notion is the pop-culture presented throughout the film. When you see the young actors and actress fall in love, fight, and grow up real fast, it all happens amidst references to films of the period (Se7en, etc.), outfits, 1980's technology and other devices that fill you up with an overwhelming feeling of nostalgia and sentiment, as if you were there yourself, living these events and going through all these horrible/wonderful events.Above all things, the makers of The Butterfly Effect do the unbelievable and turn Ashton Kutcher into a good actor – a feat I thought was unachievable at best. However, in this sci-fi epic it appears as though anything is possible. Bottom line, it was a fresh breath of air when I saw it, left me pondering for days, and gave me the inspiration and write something myself after a long period of writers block. If a film manages to be this inspirational and keep you on the edge of your seat throughout its 113 minutes duration, all I can do is humbly bow down in front of its makers' talents. I'm eagerly waiting for other outings by these young folks.

Ashton Kutcher plays Evan Treborn, a troubled man who suffered blackouts as a child. When he discovers a way to travel back into the body of his past self, his time trips start to cause negative results on his present. As he uses his powers to try to fix his past and present, the effect escalates, creating alternate realities, many of which are worse than the past that he is trying to change.The Butterfly Effect is a terrific thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat. The previews looked very intense and the whole film is pretty much like that. It held onto the audience right at the start and it didn't let go until the end. The plot is nothing new but the execution was very nice. It offers a bunch of interesting and unpredictable twists so it's hard to see where things are going. The whole film is like that, just one long engaging thrill ride.The acting is okay, some people did better than others. Ashton Kutcher is surprisingly good as Evan and he does a good job for his first serious movie. Amy Smart is very pretty and talented and she plays Kayleigh perfectly. The only person I didn't really like was Melora Walters. She was pretty wooden and unconvincing. Besides for her, the acting was pretty good and convincing. No one really did a bad job.This film was directed and written by both Eric Bress and J. Mackye Gruber. They did make their mistakes but the film is still pretty good. The critics never gave this movie a chance. As soon as they heard Ashton Kutcher was in it, they all prepared to give it thumbs down. The movie moves around a lot that its hard to keep up but it also keeps you paying attention. Plenty of movies have gone back in time before but this one does it so more effectively that its almost original in that sense. The beginning is done well, the middle it starts dragging but it starts picking up and the ending is done extremely well. This is one of the best films of 2004 and certainly an entertaining one. In the end, this underrated gem is worth checking out. Rating 8/10

This movie received WAY too many bad reviews. The only reason was to PUNK Ashton Kutcher. Say what you will, Kutcher did a fair to midland acting job here. There have been a lot worse performances on film in much better reviewed movies. I tell you, you will NOT be disappointed watching the Director's cut Alternate ending. It is a story of how one action causes a series of reactions...no matter the intentions, be careful what you wish for. This film's biggest mistake was promoting it in the horror genre. It is NOT! It is a nice dark fantasy film, nothing more, nothing less. There are 2 different endings, with 2 different meanings for me. I preferred the Alternate ending in lieu of the Theatrical ending. A great "popcorn" movie. Don't believe the (bad)Hype!

I should state up front that this review is for the director's cut.To put it bluntly, this movie suffers from having a smart heart and a stupid brain.  Any movie like this requires the viewer to suspend disbelief.  In doing so the storytellers have the option to establish replacement rules to govern the universe they've created.  This movie sets up well, giving the main character (Evan) blackouts which it will fill in later.  However, once Evan ventures into his past to 'fill in' the empty spaces, the movie begins to contradict itself.  This would be excusable if it was a lighter, more amusing movie.  But this is far from light material.  It is extremely morbid.  The audience is bombarded with this darkness, which attempts to engage us, to give us something deeper.  Unfortunately, it doesn't take much digging before you get frustrated.For me, there are two particularly frustrating aspects to this film:First, the tagline of this movie is "change one thing, change everything". As such, I expected that when Evan goes back to change something, everything from that point forward will be different.  In other words, if Evan has ten blackouts, and goes back to visit the fifth one, then all the following blackouts would either vanish or be completely different.  Instead, the blackouts are always the same.  Evan jumps around to whatever blackout is convenient.  However, this betrays the movie's central concept.  This could have been fixed with a more careful storyline, where the blackouts were visited in reverse order.The second frustrating aspect is the gross simplifications in Evan's revised histories.  When Evan goes back and changes over a decade of history, the effects of his change are summed up far too easily and conveniently, almost as if the other people are all in on some cruel joke being played on Evan. I understand that this is done to keep the pace moving, but again the central theme of "change one thing, change everything".  But even after multiple changes, a lot of the world stays pretty much the same.Comparisons to Donnie Darko are inevitable.  Donnie Darko was a superior film in this regard because it did not make the mistake of laying down ground rules and then breaking them.  Instead, it hides the rules from the audience and leaves them up for discussion.  As a result, you have a much more interesting conversation piece.  The Butterfly Effect essentially outsmarts itself by trying too hard.For some, my comments may seem like cynical over-thinking.  This movie has a lot of polish on it to make it look good, and if you want to keep your brain turned off, you may enjoy it considerably.  Some people may not like Ashton Kutcher and discredit the movie based on that, but honestly I thought his performance was far more convincing than the script itself.Like I said before, this movie does have a smart heart.  It tries very very hard to bring something interesting to the table.  The setup and ending are good, but the path between is too dark for its own good and ultimately a mess of contradictions.  6 out of 10.

OK it's a bit to late to write a comment about this movie but let me tell you about it. Don't by any means watch the theatrical version!!! The first time I watched the movie was when I rented the Director's cut version. I was fascinated, really stunned by this movie. It kept me wondering why I haven't heard of that movie before and the answer was that people didn't see the Director's cut but the Theatrical version instead. Oh yes there are no similarities between those versions. The theatrical version is a light version if you like, a version at the end of which you will say "well OK nice movie", but(!!!!) the Director's cut gives the real meaning of the movie. It changes the whole idea, it adds new scenes and omits others, it changes the whole movie with a new outstanding ending and the plot in general is more concrete!!! I won't say anymore so jump to the Director's cut at once and if by any chance the TV broadcasts the theatrical version just change the channel!!!

It's a pity, I still ask me how is it possible to waste such a brilliant idea. From the beginning, the plot catch you, it seems twisted (it is), but easy to understand, and it is effective. Going on it fall into the banality, always worse going to the end. It seems like they had this starting idea, but they were not able to evolve it for the rest of the movie, so it remain as an embryo. It become obvious and often pathetic. The only message escapes is the classic and obvious:"if you want to change the future it could be worse". Another problem: actors! Incredibly not able to act, Kutcher (I don't know if famous in the States) is not "strong" enough to have such a responsibility, Amy Smart is beauty, but just that, Melora Walters is always crying, very far from the good interpretations with P.T.Andersson. Somebody compare it to "Donnie Darko". No way! Another World!

Evan has always suffered from something that causes him to "blackout" during times of extreme crisis. All through his childhood he would blank out right before something drastic happens and not remember anything that happened. Now in college, he reads through a journal he used to write as a kid to notice that all of a sudden these harmful memories are coming back to him. When he goes to ask his childhood sweetheart about it she doesn't want to talk about it. He finds out however, that he can actually tap into his past and change what happened in these events. Unfortunately, every time he changes the past, even in the slightest way the future is also effected. All scores are out of a possible 10: Story: 9 - VERY interesting story on psychology and how the mind sometimes blanks out events. Also playing on the theory of Butterfly Effect which is explained in the very beginning of the movie "If a butterfly flaps its wings on one side of the world, the ripple effect could cause a tempest on the other"Acting: 8 - The lead girl in this movie did a great job. Since she was the result of many of the alternate realities, she had to go though as a crack whore, a sorority princess, a broken waitress and other things. Kutcher seemed to do what he does best... playing a crazy college kid. He's not as comedic in this role, but adds his charm in for fun. This isn't a comedy but its got its moments. Music: 8 - A few good scores. On the more peaceful moments it sounds real well. Sound Mix: 8 - Freaking scary! There are parts that really jump out at you. Since one of the dramatic events in the main character's life was dynamite going off, the sounds of him blacking out goes off like the dynamite exploding. I'll admit, i even jumped a few times. Camera-work / Lighting: 7 - It suited the scenes real well. In some of the fight scenes it gets pretty wavy for effect that does real well and makes it more intense. Editing: 9 - This must have been one of the hardest things in this movie. Since it involves alternate realities as well as time, a lot of thought must have gone into making all world seem to make sense. Since changing the reality effects where the main character is when he wakes up in the present, all of his "missed" memories flood back into him. They did really well with keeping the continuity up to par. Uniqueness: 8 - Its not horror. It is scary most of the time, but its also a romance for the most part since his largest goal is making his girlfriend happy while keeping everything else in the world tame. It doesn't go into the sci-fi time travel stuff either which is good since its more of a mental thing than flux capacitors and DeLoreans.Worth: 8 - Worth seeing. Even if you aren't a fan of Punk'd or Dude Where's My.. you'll enjoy seeing Kutcher in this role. The story is very gripping and almost makes you review how things could have changed in your life had some different events altered it. Overall Score (Not an average): 8 - Really good movie. The sound is powerful, there's a good romance about this which should be cute for the tearjerkers who want something new. The acting is really good for the most part and the shock of some of the scenes will definitely grab people. Reviewer's Insight (Including bias): Time travel has always been an interest for me. BackToTheFuture, my favorite book "Replay" by Ken Grimwood and some others. This movie isn't ALL about time travel. Its what small events in life end up resulting to, whether it be the biggest event in your life or a small one. Changing reality isn't truly the answer to happiness. As they say in the movie, You Can't Play God. Time will catch up to you no matter what you do to change it. "Change one thing. Change everything" as the movie's caption says and it definitely shows in every alternate reality he tries to effect.

Not much to say about this film... Interesting and well driven plot. Rewriting personal history... limited multiple second chances... and without major logical flaws... that's a pretty rare and nice achievement. Acting is good... "episodes" are well cut... The main character keeps on making human mistakes and the empathy works.All the film is going in the same way and the logical ending is the alternate ending you'll find on the DVD release or on some-online-video-publishing websites with nice search engines.The standard final non-sens "happy ending" of the film is a shame. A real shame.I would rate this film 8 with the alternate ending or 6 with the standard stupid happy ending so let's rate it 7 :)

THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT- THEATRICAL CUT (4 outta 5 stars)THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT- DIRECTOR'S CUT (3+ outta 5 stars)Now normally I tend to prefer movies that let the writer/director tell the story that they want to without having to water it down for mass consumption. In this case I have to say that the ending they they were forced to re-shoot for the theatrical release of this movie is a much more emotional, resonant and appropriate ending than the bleak, cold and grotesque finale they had originally planned. On the US DVDs you get the choice of which version to see (foreign editions only have the less compelling director's version)... so North American viewers can make up their own mind about which ending they prefer. I would suggest watching the theatrical cut first... and then check out the director's cut... which would you prefer to think of as the "real" ending?As for the movie itself... don't be put off by the idea of Ashton Kutcher in the lead role. He does quite a good job in a serious part quite different from his usual TV persona. He plays a college student who, having been plagued by mental blackouts all his life, devotes himself to the study of human memory. Eventually he finds that by re-reading old journal entries he can will himself back in time to experience the events he had blacked out... and even CHANGE THEM using the knowledge that his older self possesses. Unfortunately one small change in the past causes some HUGE ramifications in his present day world. Can't say too much more about the plot without giving away the many fun surprises. Believable performances and a basic seriousness give the film an urgency that is sometimes missing in modern fantasy films of this type.

The film that was underrated. The film that only appeared on US cinemas. The Butterfly Effect.I think Ashton Kutcher did a good job on this film, along with Andrea Treborn. I recall that Kutcher has never made a film like this, and his first thriller was somewhat peculiar. Not just any old thriller, this one would keep you on the edge of your seat from the start to the finish. A weird title however, but the tag line explains all. Change one thing, change everything. I think this automatically gets you thinking, and as the film proceeds, it gets harder. You like thinking? Get this film, because you will not want to miss it!

Ashton Kutcher courts credibility by sporting a beard that looks like the direct result of losing his shaver and sleeping in his clothes for two days. It worked for George Michael.As far as I can gather from *The Butterfly Effect*'s totally illogical storyline, a teen model time travels backwards to rectify sins of the past so that in the "present," he can hook up with another teen model.Noble? No. Hot? Definitely. We must remember whom this wiffle of a movie was created for – girls. But despite its attempt to sabotage itself by casting Kutcher in the lead role, this thriller succeeds as a very effective and entertaining film. Directors/writers Eric Bress and J. Mackye Gruber move the action at the pace of a car salesman's pitch, and twice as slick, designed to specifically deceive your brain through the muddled logic and irreconcilable paradoxes for exactly the length of the movie. After that, you're on your own…The actual "butterfly effect" is a chaos theory syllogism (attributed to an early pioneer of chaos theory, Edward Lorenz), which posits that "the flapping of a butterfly's wing will create a disturbance that in the chaotic motion of the atmosphere will become amplified eventually to change the large scale atmospheric motion, so that the long term behavior becomes impossible to forecast." (Michael Cross, Professor of Theoretical Physics, CalTech). Put more simply, "the flap of a butterfly's wings in Brazil may set off a tornado in Texas." (ibid.) Consequently, *The Butterfly Effect* movie is based on chaos theory in the same way that *Achy Breaky Heart* is based on *Bohemian Rhapsody.*But the notion that the filmmakers attempt to impart is simple enough. Whenever Evan Treborn (Kutcher) jolts himself backwards in time to try to change one thing for the better (to ultimately end up with his dream girl, Kayleigh, played with varying degrees of conviction by Amy Smart), his action sets in motion a wave of unpredictability for the "present" that he returns to.Or at least, unpredictability for the principals only. Evan, his mother and his teen friends change dramatically whilst every other person in their orbits is more or less unaffected. They don't seem to have made any new acquaintances, business partners or lovers along the way who influenced their lives – these few teens only seem to have affected each other and the outside world just came along for the ride. So the world DOES revolve around teen models!The method by which Evan achieves his temporal travels is by reading his childhood diaries; read a certain page with the concentration of a teen model and he is jolted back to that point in time, as per Einstein's Theorem of Teen Model Time Travel. Upon finding a mess in the "present" after each backwards jaunt, Evan steps up his jaunts to the point where we are watching him with the expectancy of another episode of Gilligan's Island; that is, the serious nature of his unique power dissipates and we wonder how that crazy Gilligan is going to mess up THIS week. Ultimately, the plot goes past chaos theory and straight to chaos.Weighted issues like pedophilia (shabby Eric Stoltz making a cameo as a child molester), letter bombs (remember the good old days when not even a bomb placed in your letterbox would make you puss out and cry "terrorist!"?), animal abuse and baby-killing keep the movie above the fluff level. Some would say *below* the decency level. The kids playing younger versions of the teen models are such fine actors that, in a fit of disassociation, we incorrectly attribute their talent to the overall character of Evan, Kutcher being only the eldest incarnation, but nonetheless garnering our misplaced respect. Mediocre actor as read, there's no doubt that Kutcher is on a different plane of maturity when it comes to his professional life: an ex-Bioengineering student from Iowa, the 6'2" ex-model is a producer, executive producer, writer, restaurant owner – and married to the hands-down-hottest Brat Packer (Demi Moore) who was married to the hands-down-hottest action hero in Hollywood, Bruce Willis. Dude, where's my bitchslap?The fact that Evan does end up performing a noble deed which leaves him Without The Girl is a brave choice for a Chick Flick of Kutcherian proportions, raising the sobriety level of the film even higher. (The director's cut inserts a very disturbing ending indeed: Evan goes back to the womb for his noble deed - how he got there, his fetus not having made any diary entries, is a question for the chaos theory mathematicians to answer. Anyone got Edward Lorenz's number?)If taken at face value, *Butterfly Effect* is a crafty, hip, infuriatingly enjoyable jaunt. If taken with a shred of logic, it retains about as much credibility as - well, Ashton Kutcher.

I was rather surprised with this movie, not expecting much from something with Ashton Kutcher in the lead. I just can't seem to him picture with him any kind of real acting ability. I just always see a Michael Kelso. But, Butterfly Effect changed my opinion a little.The Butterfly Effect is another one of those science fiction stories in which characters, distraught with their present reality, can change that reality by revising their past decisions, even slightly.Evan (Kutcher), as a young boy, endured a few childhood trauma along with his three childhood friends, Kallie, Tommy, and Lenny, such as his friend's pedophile father (Stolz). Evan has some kind of problem, however, that causes him to blackout during these traumatic, life changing events. These past events obviously effect the present as they mold the person the four children will become. And it isn't always pretty.As a psychology major, Evan is inspired to study memory patterns, and consequently, discovers his neurological knack for forcing himself to remember things. When he does, he is able to transplant himself back to that time (through the help of his journals that he kept since he was 7) and, still knowing what he knows in the present, is able to alter the past, and also the present. So, his goal is to make all of his friends' and mother's lives at least as perfect as they can be by wiping out as much of the bad stuff as he possibly can. But not everything works well on the first try. In other words, it is an opportunity to be able to "redo" his past. Evan is able to give everyone a second (and third, and fourth) chance at life. Now granted, the story is a cool idea, but the idea may've been pushed too far. Why are the possibilities for a second chance endless? Why can't there be some point, or at least some possbility of Evan not always being able to go back, or not being able to revise things?The problem with this movie at first glance is that the complexity of the story creates problems with details. For instance, in one of the times that Evan goes back, he is able to make some of the friend's life nearly perfect. Say, Evan is able to start off this perfection by going back to age 7, then we would not expect the bad events that took place at age 11 to involve him, as his line of perfection would've already been set in place. Yet, the journal entries never change. And that's a problem with this movie. Evan's life may change, but his journal entries never seem to, not even after his age of revision.The second problem with this movie is that it is so excruciatingly stereotypical. When Evan improves the present for he and Kallie, she is the sorority girl and he the frat boy. They live in a nice place, he drives a brand new luxury car. When things go well for Tommy, he is a sweater vest wearing campus crusader for Christ type. Evan's roommate, Thumper, is the by-the-book version of "goth." There is no character that simply seems to exist as just normal, and not the stereotypical version of perfection or being utterly dismal. In fact, this movie may best be titled, "Equations for Being So Stereotypically White." But then again, mainstream pop culture exists on lumping people into one generalized group or another.As a sigh of relief at least, thank goodness this did not turn out to be another piece of obnoxious teen movie garbage.