As a fan of "Ju-On" and the 2004 remake―starring "Buffy The Vampire Slayer" actress Sarah Michelle Gellar―I had high hopes for this third installment. I mean, after the abysmal 2006 sequel, it couldn't get any worse, right? Wrong. Granted not as tedious and insipid as the sequel, this 2009 follow-up starring actress Shawnee Smith still leaves a bitter taste in the mouth. Where to start... ?Director Toby Wilkins tries to duplicate the eeriness and unpleasantness of the first movie, but sadly, fails miserably. With half-hearted acting, bad special effects, and a tiresome plot, the movie never picks up or satisfies. Whilst watching the movie, I realized the overall story of the franchise has never evolved; or more to the point, no one has tried to take a fresh approach. Much like the sequel, the third stab is a series of flat, horror-lacking murder sequences, and what makes this even worse is, we already know what's coming. Scene after scene after scene, the previous formula is recycled. We hear the now trademark 'Grudge' sound, we hear a small boy running, we hear the cry of a cat ― and that's pretty much it. There is only so many times you can show a pale-faced, dark haired Japanese woman with her dead son and their dead cat, until it's just not scary anymore. The franchise needs new ideas. We need new stories and new locations. Otherwise, this 'Grudge' is going to be on a constant loop. My advice, stick with the original or the 2004 remake. There's nothing you haven't seen before here. One thing I will say is, I'm surprised this movie is getting the direct-to-DVD treatment and the second one had theater status. Although both are severely mediocre, IMO, I wasn't left completely catatonic after watching the third.

Okay but passionless tale of attempts to end the curse by a Japanese woman who goes from Japan to Chicago where the curse has situated itself in an apartment building. Much too by the numbers to really be considered anything (you could have called this anything and it wouldn't have mattered), this is a film where its clear its time to call an end to the series (hell, the Japanese did). You know you're in trouble when the creepy white skin kid now looks like a not so creepy white skinned teen with a bad haircut. Worse is the fact that the sounds coming from him are badly done and far from creepy. The series has lost its way and become a waste of time.

There is always something good about a movie, however bad it may be, or so I thought before watching this movie. The story completely lost its essence in comparison to the first and second part of the story. Even I try to point out the good and the bad points of the movie, I really can't find any good point. 1: It is not scary at all. The original story, even though it's not one of the scariest ever, had that Japanese talent to creep you out without actually showing almost anything in the screen and leaving most to the imagination except some crucial scenes. This aspect has completely been lost in this last movie. Maybe due to the fact that the director is not anymore a Japanese. 2: The story is very repetitive. It doesn't add anything new to the original story. Even though it is not scary, it could be OK if the story was interesting. But it couldn't more boring and lacking of originality. 3: The same tricks to scare you are repeated over and over again. The same pale boy running around and the same creeping woman following the characters in bright corridors. It never gets original and you know exactly what to expect in every scene without surprising you. 4: Sometimes the ending can save a movie, but in this case I couldn't but laugh of how ridiculously it ends.In summary, even if you liked the grudge 1 and 2, don't watch this one. If you want to watch a scary movie, you are going to waste your time. And if you anyway like the gender of horror movies for its stories, your are going to regret watching this boredom.Imagine a person comically falling down and everybody around laughing. He sees he was funny so he falls again on purpose. Some people laugh. So he falls again. nobody laughs, so he tries again and again to see if somebody laughs and fails miserably. Dude, it's not funny anymore. Stop.

First of all, I have been a huge fan of Japanese horror movies ever since I saw the original Japanese version of The Ring nearly 8-9 years ago. I have seen a lot of different horror movies but I have to say, my favourites are The Ring and the Ju-On franchise.After seeing that there was a The Grudge 3, I had some hopes for it. But boy, if only I knew what was coming...Where to start? The acting was utterly horrible and the plot was forgettable. As for the scary parts, we all know whats coming, you see the boy in white, you hear that classic sound of ju-on and you see her approaching her victim, over and over and over again. There is nothing new to this movie and its about time to let the franchise take a rest.

don't know what i wanna attack first,, this one was so well off,, from the first two. you didn't have the fear of what lies beyond,, not knowing what is in front of you like the first two. the kills were too stylized, should have never set it in chicago.. the couple always wanted to have sex in the apartment building ruined it for me,, just another campy American horror movie. i dind't really care for the characters that much,, this film just really did not sit well with me at all,, i mean the storyline wasn't bad,, i just think that somewhere along the line things just went horribly wrong,, i think that i really wouldn't recommend this one if you like the first two.

Even though its DTV, THE GRUDGE 3 is a good addition to the series, the acting is better than what you'd expect, and the director Toby Wilkins managed to keep it from looking cheap and tacky, and the script, this time provided by Brad Keene, had a few good twist and turns, and was certainly more bloody than the first and the second, that both had scripts provided by Stephen Susco.The other fact that Toshio and the woman (Pardon me I forgot how to spell her name) have been re cast does not hinder the film one bit, Overall, its definitely a good sequel, and could have gone theatrical, considering that there are worst films that did go theatrical, need I mention THE HILLS HAVE EYES 2 or BUG (especially BUG).6 out of 10

Was this movie really necessary?Being a fan of Asian horror movies, it literally pains me to see Hollywood cash in on Asian movies and 'Americanize' them. And this third installment to the Americanized versions of "Ju-On" is no different than other previous attempts of turning Asian horror into Western horror.The story told in "The Grudge 3" is not bad as such, but it was a very weak result they ended up with. Moving the curse from Japan to USA? Alright, well I guess it was a well enough attempted shot at merging Asian and Western horror into one movie. Just didn't work that well. And it seems there will be no end to this particular line of movies, as the story just goes on and on.I found the acting in the movie to be adequate, and it was Johanna Braddy (playing Lisa) and Aiko Horiuchi (playing Kayako) who were carrying the movie with the most memorable performances. The story was plagued by poor dialogue, which brought the entire movie down a notch.What is scary about a little white-painted Japanese boy with 'helmet hair' who makes cat sounds? Or a white-painted Japanese woman sounding like a squeaking floor? It is beyond my comprehension.One of the better things in the movie was the effects, because they were actually just the right amount of everything; blood, gore, shock, etc.And there was literally nothing new to this third installment. Have you seen the previous two American versions, then you have seen all the 'scary' stuff in this movie already. And I use the term 'scary' lightly here, because there were no real scares or spooky moments. The only new part introduced here was the second sister, and with that, letting the story go on and on...Hollywood should have stopped once they 'Americanized' "Ju-On" with the first installment. This third movie was weak and unnecessary.If you like horror movies, or Asian horror movies in particular, you are better off with something else entirely. There are lots of other more interesting and actually scary movies out there. "The Grudge 3" hopefully managed to put the "Grudge" series to rest.

I always preferred the original Japanese titles to the second rate American remakes, but as there was no Jap Grudge 3 it became a no brainer (in every sense of the phrase). I enjoyed the first two films a fair bit; I wouldn't have said that they rocked my world, but were not such a bad way to spend an hour and a half.This third installment is almost not part of the same franchise; OK, so there are the same main characters from the previous two and the so-called curse that is supposed to be attributed to the location where the murders took place (therefore how can it move to the USA just because the story needs it as a plot device?), other than that nothing much. The characters are all horrendous stereotypes from clichéd horror films which were all done far better than this mess, the story plods along slower than it has any right to and the majority of the first hour does little other than explain who the 4 main characters are, which could be done in around 5 minutes if handled correctly!! There is little by way of gore apart from a couple of stabbing scenes and an off-screen pulverisation; which for most of us horror film fans is the ultimate pay off and the reason we sit through the rest of the tiresome background building sections and introductory necessities! The end is a complete formality and would have been better to have just ended on a blank screen and a decent, well-produced sound-byte...most of which are handled atrociously incidentally...I give it 4 out of 10; one point for each of the deaths and one point for the joyous sight of the end credits appearing. Avoid unless sleepless...this may help!

Here comes the next instalment in ''The Grudge'' series. Kayako and Toshio's curse continues by haunting ''The Grudge 2'''s only survivor, Jake, who's now confined to a psychiatric hospital after his family's alleged suicide. When the curse of the Grudge finally kills him too, news reaches a mysterious young woman in Japan. As Jake's case worker, Dr. Sullivan , investigates his Chicago home, the curse continues to claim more victims. As the rage spreads, it becomes clear that Jake's horrifying stories are true, and the Japanese woman is the only hope of finally burying the Grudge once and for all unless she becomes another victim. Now they need to stop it once and for all before the curse reaches more people and becomes horrific (Edit) I think I was little Harsh on this movie before so) what made me angry is that Ju-on movie made me really scared but this movie was just like one the spoof movies like Scary movie! Kayako wasn't even scary she looked really nice not like the Ju-on movies Toshio's looked to big they should small boy in this movieThere is only one scene I really like this movie and that when Kayako coming out the panting was good but was just Ripping of The Ringu The Ending of movie was Just silly, The twist at the end was way over top!, It did have better ending then The Grudge 2 also acting is not that bad for Third movie in the remake series That why I gave it 2 put higher then before!

i see movie now and like it as much as 1 and 2. the story of the grudge is great for scary movie and all elements are well designed. i am happy that we will see grudge 4 as soon as possible, because grudge will never done. the first part of movie isn't scary until the boy comes back in a new house and want to kill all the persons that live there. the dead boy and woman are very well designed and scary enough. and at the end part of movie the horror reaches to maximum value!! but all sections in this movie wasn't great and some parts could be better. i think every one that love grudge 1 and 2, must see this for another joy of horror. have a good night with this movie ;)

Firstly it's worth noting that I watch a TON of horror films. Whether they're good, bad, weird, low-budget indies or big-budget Hollywood flicks, I give nearly every one a chance including this cash-&-grab, "The Grudge 3". If you want to experience true horror and you've never seen "Ju-On", then I implore you to go watch that amazing film NOW. You'll thank me. Takashi Shimizu is a genius and sadly he had nothing to do with "The Grudge 3". So if you're looking for a cliché Hollywood horror flick with all of the worst elements of modern horror rolled into one terrible little film burrito, look no further than "The Grudge 3"!By the time "The Grudge 3" came about, the Japanese haunting idea was getting old. Most importantly and sadly, Takashi Shimizu had nothing to do with the making of this film. Toby Wilkins directed this sloppy mess, and it's like a slap in the face to Shimizu's amazing work with the first film, as well as it's American adaptation which was also very good. Much like "The Grudge 2", the third installment is just dry and full of anticlimactic suspense.All of the wonderful aspects of the original film which gave it an incredibly tense atmosphere and a realistic sense of dread are totally absent here. The monster(s) are overused; we see WAY too much of these ghost-like people that they're just not scary. What was initially frightening is now boring. The movie is so far from scary--and just plain bad--to the point that it's almost painful to watch. What was supposed to be making me cringe in fright was making me cringe in disgust and frustration. "The Grudge 3" is bad in every way, and it's the antithesis of what the original masterpiece that started it all was; a really scary film that brought something new and fresh to the table. It's not even funny-type bad, it's just bad! I usually don't rate films this low, but this one should simply be avoided altogether. Please believe me when I say there are MUCH better horror films to watch, even if your standards are really low. This is a bad, bad, baaad film!

having seen the first two Grudge movies, which I liked, I thought this would be a great addition to it. I was wrong. The movements of Kayako in the first two were strange and scary, but here, in the third film, it is downright funny at times than scary. With the exception when she crawls out of a painting. What we don't see here, like in the first two films, is when she grabs people. In the first two, she grabs people and somehow they become part of the curse as shown in the second movie. Here, Kayako becomes a kind of slasher ghost, which doesn't work at all. Characters; run of the mill, kind of what you expect in horror movies. Nothing noteworthy about it with the exception of Shawnee Smith - who seem to become a regular in horror movies and Marini Sirtis from Star Trek. Other than that, you don't feel anything for these characters. Plot, not that bad, at times they stretched it a bit.I can understand that the sister had a hard time believing Naoko when she told her about the curse, but when she agreed to do the ceremony, she stopped Naoko, because she didn't want her little sister to drink something? Please, her life was at stake, as that of her sister, you would think that she would let it end there. But no, she refused and enter possessed Max who goes after Naoko, killing her in a similar fashion as Kayako. The ending really sucked in my opinion. It's a classic let's bring the villain back once more so it could lead to another sequel. Sure, the other two movies had a similar ending, but those worked for it. Here it clearly doesn't. It was a cop out, a clichéd Hollywood ending for a horror movie.