In the hands of a lesser filmmaker than Frank Darabont and processed through the mind of a typical studio screenwriter for hire, a Hollywood film adaptation of Stephen King's novella THE MIST could easily have become your run-of-the-mill monster movie: creatures from another dimension devour people trapped in a mall (presumably the monsters pick them off one by one, after the typical formula employed in countless generic horror films). But the most captivating thing in King's story is not really the plot about the monsters attacking and the "breach" into another dimension (although I love that idea): it's how the human characters react to it and what happens between them.In staying faithful to the source material, Darabont uses the microcosm consisting of the people trapped in a small town supermarket to explore the dynamics and power shifts that happen very quickly within a society when a powerful outside threat appears. Just like King's excellent novella, the film is a hard hitting allegory for how easily even seemingly "civilized" countries become susceptible to the hateful, crazy messages of demagogues when they are faced with a serious crisis. And it not only manages to perfectly capture the subtext and political undercurrent of the novel, Darabont's film also gives the audience a true sense of the Lovecraftian horror King unleashed on the page (the creatures look fittingly otherworldly, misbegotten and truly frightening).As it is, THE MIST isn't just one of the most faithful King adaptations to date, it's one of the best horror films of the new millennium.P.S. (for new IMDb users): In case you don't know whether to trust this review or not, because you have no idea what my tastes in film are, just click on my username - gogoschka-1 - and you'll see a list what my 50 favorite movies are.

Having read the story and listened to the unabridged audio many times, this film version leaves me flat. Character development of David, especially the removal of the narrative style of the story in the book, hollows-out the characters, leaving the relationship of David and Amanda out altogether (which had been one of the best parts of the story). The death of Norm portion in the loading dock/storeroom was especially faithful to the story, however, and shines as the best portion of the film. The suspense of the scene is carried off well as is the pharmacy scene. Yet again, the book makes the pharmacy seem to have been a smaller store than depicted with the addition of the MP death by baby spiders scene being wholly gratuitous. The race to David's truck was nicely carried out, with the reverses well played. It surprised me that the screenplay author felt it necessary to leave out the faint hope of Stephanie Drayton yet being alive by the return to the Drayton's house and the discovery of her body there. A constant in the plot had been of David visualizing Stephanie working in the garden as he had left her on that first morning. This was a source of guilt on David's part because of the developing relationship with Amanda. But, the most galling portion was the murderous end of the movie! This was a complete opposite to the book, which had the survivors holed-up in a hotel some distance from their hometown at the end of the novella. A feeling of hope was given in the book, whereas the movie left one with a feeling of pointlessness, especially when the woman who had gone to find her children early in the movie turned up alive and well with her kids. When the book had her as one of the first to die. Overall, a movie that showed promise at first, but leaves a lot to be desired at the end. SK's books are always a lot better than the movies accredited to them.

On first impressions The Mist doesn't remotely seem like the kind of film anyone should be excited about. The Mist, what? A bit like The Fog, then. Stephen King's The Mist, oh, that makes it even worse. Directed by Frank Darabont, since when did he direct horror films? Okay, so he scripted Nightmare on Elm Street 3 and The Blob, not bad films, but not classics in any sense. Starring Thomas Jane, has anyone seen The Punisher. And, to cap it all, The Mist died a quick death at the US box office. It'll probably go straight to DVD in the UK.The only reason I bought and watched the film was on a recommendation from a friend. He pleaded: "You have to see this film. You won't believe how good it is." So I put his judgement to the test.And thank God. This is a great horror film. From the opening scene, Darabont sets a tone that's creepy, sinister and beautifully judged. The script is realistic, the character are believable and the direction... Darabont has almost reinvented himself. The Mist is dark, scary and even funny (intentionally). You care about the characters, the scary scenes are scary, and the whole film is carried off with an efficiency, a lack of pretension and a strong idea of what makes a good, if not great, horror film.And the ending... how dark can you get? I can understand why this didn't do well at the box office. But neither did Shawshank Redemption...

Let's be honest, Stephen King stories have not had very good luck when it comes to big screen adaptations. For every "The Shining", there have been 10 terrible movies. I was pretty leery about seeing "The Mist". I had enjoyed the novella and I wanted to see something that would do it justice. This film does a pretty good job, although I'm not sure it deserves its current lofty rating here on IMDb.The plot is rather simple. A mixed group of survivors are trapped in a supermarket as a mysterious, deadly mist suddenly rolls in. No one is really sure where it came from, although theories abound. Some think it's the end of the world, Biblical style. Others think it's an industrial accident. Still others are convinced this has something to do with the research being done at a nearby military base. Very quickly the survivors learn there are weird monstrosities lurking in the mist. Creepy, prehistoric predatory creatures. They also quickly learn that any trip into the mist usually results in a gruesome death within minutes. There is no communication with the outside world, so the survivors are left to speculate how far the mist has spread and if any one else has survived.Over time tensions begin to get the better of the survivors and civility breaks down. Some turn to a religious zealot for answers, others look to our hero, David Drayton (played by Thomas Jane), others simply commit suicide. At this point, the movie becomes more of a disaster movie with some movie-monster special effects thrown in. It's a study of how quickly society can break down when the normal routine and rules are removed. The movie also raises interesting questions about making decisive, life-changing decisions when it's hard to have a clue what the right answer might be. Do you stay in the supermarket, with an increasingly violent group of people, and hope help is on the way? Or do you try to formulate an escape plan and risk the mist, where no one has survived for more than a few hundred feet?The psychological aspect of the mist is what's truly scary and isn't explored nearly enough. The actual monsters in the mist aren't all that frightening. Giant spiders, giant lobsters, giant insects, pterodactyl-like flying creatures... They all seem like rejects from a bad science fiction B-movie. The "military research gone wrong" angle also fits nicely with B-movie tradition and seems a little tired and ridiculous. The movie is far more enjoyable as a disaster movie, rather than a horror movie.The end of the movie is surprisingly downbeat and nihilistic. What if our hero, who seemed so confident and in control all along, was just guessing like everyone else? What if he made some disastrously bad decisions, through no fault of his own? That's the end of this film. It seems the cowardly people, who were afraid to take action, are the ones who probably survived. All along we are so focused on the character flaws of the supporting characters, we fail to see that perhaps the hero might be just as flawed.

The acting is good for the most part, and the mist definitely creates an ominous atmosphere throughout the movie. Some of the CGI is a bit dated but it's from 15 years ago people. The ending is rough, in a heart wrenching way. I didn't read the short story so I don't know how much it follows it, but I would assume some creative additions were made in order to make it a full movie. There are some parts that drag a little bit, and possibly some over zealous reactions from the characters, but all in all I think it's a creative representation of what people might do when faced with such a horrific scenario..SPOILERS AHEAD...Previous reviewers don't seem to realize that it happens over the course of a few days, maybe even a week. Yes the crazy religious lady being able to develop a following might be a little overblown, but when faced with such dire circumstances who knows how some devout followers may react? You have to put yourself in these peoples heads and remember that they have NO IDEA WTF is going on or out there in the mist, so paranoia is gonna set in. Survival instincts are gonna kick in, and when faced with what could seem like the end of the world to some people, intense beliefs are gonna start to take hold too.. As far as the ending, put yourself in their shoes. As far as the 5 survivors know, the mist means death. They weren't able to get away from it with the gas they had! So what are you gonna do? Go outside to meet a grizzly painful end? Or shoot yourself in the head? What could've been an even more tragic ending is if the father puts his sons head next to his so that one bullet can kill both of them, then we see the tanks roll up and think "If only they had waited another minute or two.."

After a freak and powerful storm, Drayton, his son and their neighbour ride into town to grab some supplies from the local supermarket. Upon arriving at store, it seems almost everyone in town had the same plan. A man bleeding from the nose runs into the store screaming about something in the mist that attacked him and took his friend. The mist rolls in and everyone is trapped inside, scared of leaving because of the creatures the dwell within it.When I saw previews for The Mist, I wasn't too impressed. I thought it was going to be another run of the mill Hollywood horror film that wouldn't be scary, thrilling, gory, tense or have any characters that I could give a damn about. That was even with Darabont behind the camera. After finally seeing it, I sit here wrong on all counts. The Mist is just as thrilling and scary and tense as you want it to be, yet it falls short in many areas, mostly out of frustration on my part.Thomas Jane isn't the best actor around. When you fight fight sharks and John Travolta how far can you really go into a character. Here he gets the chance, being a father who must take care of his scared son, act as a leader in the store and ultimately survive the horror that awaits him outside. Now he does try here, but it comes off as some twilight zone B movie acting. Which is, what I can only assume, is what Darabont wanted. His screaming in the film's conclusion is hurtful, both in terms of acting and in sorrow for the character. His son is given nothing to do but cry and be scared, which you can guess is exactly what a little kid would be in this situation.The tension created is great, the mist rolls in and everyone is stuck inside. We don't know who or what these things are, but we know we are in for some scary things. Then we actually see them and that tension goes down a bit. In scenes in which the creatures interact with the humans, it comes off as fake and cheesy. By itself, it is quite neat, but still not truly horrifying. I felt like they missed a chance with some tension in the audio department. It starts off nice, with an alarm alerting the town of danger, but after that we get things that are few and far between. For instance, while we are in the mist, to build tension we could have heard the creatures crawling around. For people at home it would be great with surround sound. The only instance I remember them doing this was in the pharmacy.I like that we don't know for sure where these things came from, and the sci/fi element is a neat addition. If we were full blown told what these things were and where they came from it would ruin the ambiguity of the whole film. This film stands out for me because of the way it was shot, very surreal, hand held and in the moment. If everything were nicely panned and smooth flowing, it would feel to fake.I have two gripes, which is why the film is rated lower then what this review if praising it for. One, for those who've seen it know where I am going, is the ending. I won't spoil it for you, but you will either like it, or hate it. Which is ironic because I am on the fence with it. I applaud them for throwing a curve ball and showing us something that is so anti-Hollywood, but I felt cheated. You don't invest two plus hours into these characters and then pull off something like that. I called the ending....as a joke. I didn't expect it to be true. It's not really a twist, but what happens is shocking.Second, the characters. I have never hated so many characters in one film. The Jesus freak stands out as one of my most hated characters in cinema history, right up there with Franklin from Texas Chainsaw Massacre. I know she was suppose to be hated, but I just couldn't stand her at all. While watching the film, I put myself in some of the characters shoes and I would have never let that woman done half the stuff she did. Also, how do 90% of the people in there fall victim to her babble? I could understand some people following her, but with her reputation and the amount of hate people had for her it was too unrealistic to see so many do her bidding. Whatever happened to people banding together to defeat evil, not turn on each other. Are we as humans so disgusting that when we are thrown into danger we kill one another. That isn't what America would have you believe, especially after the 9/11 attacks. I literally got up out of my seat and cheered at one scene, which finally shut her up.The Mist is a hard film to like all the way through, it pulls you in so many different directions that you feel uneasy about it as a whole. It is skillfully made and 2/3 of it is horror classic. Yet it doesn't fulfill what I wanted it to, which is a shame because I really liked it.

Let me take a breath... Never have I had such a visceral physical reaction to a film... ever. Not even with Elem Klimov's Come and See. In the last fifteen minutes I was nearly physically paralyzed, and then started shaking, realizing how numb my body was... and I am dead serious. Frank Darabont's adaptation of Stephen King's novella goes heads above a 50s/60s monster movie homage. This is grade "A" chilling, terrifying, unsettling and utterly hopeless cinema in line with the most cynical and depressing classics from the 70s. The Mist itself and the monsters it brings are just the appetizer here. As all good horror should be, this explores the ultimate enemy, ourselves. In short one of the most beautiful, thrilling and terrible times I've had at the movies.To elaborate, it isn't a pitch perfect film... Some of the CGI at the beginning is weak, and there are a few lines that can't escape the genre, but other than that this is a home run in every department - The performances (especially from Toby Jones and Marcia Gay Harden), the ingenious hand held camera, which is never used as a gimmick. The sound design, the lack of an underscore... This lends to the great atmosphere and tension Darabont builds. I'm sure you can guess by now this isn't schmaltzy, sentimental Darabont here; this is an angry, maniacal man that rears his head and shouts, "Everything is lost!" and then shoots you in the gut. Any fan of Stephen King, The Twilight Zone or Ray Bradbury, will greedily devour this with a great big grin on their face, then feel very sick but so damn happy and then throw up. Best film of the year yet.

CGI or no CGI. It felt like a mix of b-grade and even c-grade with a small dose of Hollywood. I am a movie buff. I watch a lot of movies. I watch many movies daily, and I like to think I have good taste when it comes to any movie of any genre whether it be a drama or a horror like this one.Now I'll get to the point. I try to keep an open mind even with all movies, even the blatantly bad ones or even the films I don't really personally like, as I can admit when they are well filmed or acted brilliantly regardless of my opinion on the actual plot, like No Country and There Will Be Blood for example. Those movies I hated but I can respect them for their brilliant acting and work of camera and hidden themes etc. The Mist on the other hand, well let's just say I'd have more respect for a 10 dollar hooker with a yeast infection. I can at least say I didn't waste my money on this rubbish movie. But that being said, now there's 2 hours of my life I want back.The acting is so unforgivably bad and a lot of their lines are so incredibly uncredible you can just never get attached to any character as everything everyone in this movie just felt contrived. I mean sure, you wouldn't come across a situation like this in real life, but I refuse to believe that's how people would act if a monster in the mist actually ever did appear in my town. How can citizens be so dumb? So putting the sub par acting aside, I'll forgive Thomas Jane just once for choosing a bad movie because I honestly believe it was mostly the scripts fault here and not so much the actors. I'm not even going to go into how bad the CGI is because I don't want to get attacked by people who will try to tell me you don't need good cgi to enjoy a movie. I am aware of this fact, but I still have to say that in today's world of technology how is it possible for a Hollywood blockbuster to have such incredibly lame CGI? Oh and the ending of this movie just made me want to punch my friend in the face for making me sit through the whole thing.What more is there to say really? Except to wonder over how the rating for this weak movie obtained a score over 7 on IMDb when it should be less than 5. I have a feeling it has to do with the fact Stephen King lent his name to this abomination and come on, we all know a Steven King fan is not a reputable source as a movie critic. So unfortunately there are an abundance of King fans out there and who will rate anything he has done highly just because they can.Comparing to the last monster movie I'd seen this year, Cloverfield was rubbish but even that had more cinematic qualities going for it than this waste of a motion picture. In the end I recommend seeing the Fog, 1980 John Carpenter classic. Now that is what a horror movie is supposed to do. Scare you, not make you laugh and cry for the wrong reasons. In The Mist I was laughing at the monster moments and crying during most of the dialog. It really was that bad and right up there with the Fog remake from 2005 only somehow less scary.B-grade movie enthusiasts however will probably think this is somehow the greatest movie they have ever seen in their whole lives.

The Mist is a thrilling film about a town swept over by, well, mist... and the movie focuses on a supermarket that has roughly a hundred trapped local citizens, along with a few out-of-towners. Everyone is confused about what is going on, but a few people stick out as they try to pressure their ideas onto others. Some are petrified of the mist while others believe it's the work of God trying to warn them.This movie was extremely entertaining. It kept my attention thru the entire 2 hours. First, there's no "dilly-dallying"; the movie starts off right with a storm. The mist slowly forms over the lake by the horizon once the storm settles. The local run to the supermarket for supplies, but soon upon arrival, the mist swarms to the store and traps them inside. Some try to escape early but are torn away like mice to mice traps. The mist evolves as the movie goes on to these vial creatures that take over everything outside. As days pass, the people become desperate and that's when they try new plans, only leading to more danger.Here are the strong points of this movie. You don't know what is in the mist for a good part of the movie, which lets your imagination take over. In my opinion, that is much scarier. Another thing is that the mood is set very well: police cars speeding across the supermarket, the bull horn, the rolling of the mist towards the supermarket; the director did a remarkable job. The last thing was the psychological warfare amongst the people at the market. A quote from the movie was a reply to someone who asked why drastic measures needed to be taken, and he said "People are civilized, but when you take their possessions and put them into the dark, they will listen to anyone who says they have an answer". This movie isn't just about the mist, it is a metaphor for how trouble or error will only be acknowledged when it occurs. We can be civilized today when everything is normal, but once something happens we are lost. We turn to whomever gives advice or a solution because we are so wrapped up in misery that we will try almost anything to get it back. The Mist is a perfect scenario for this occurrence.7 out of 10 from me, you don't want to miss this if you have the opportunity. Even reading the book if you could would be great.

I really expected a lot coming into this movie considering it had a rating on this site of 7.5. The entire time I found myself yelling, "What are you doing?!" Almost everything the characters did was "horror film stereotypical". As monsters ran towards them, they stood there and screamed instead of running. The crazy lady trying to kill a ten year old child somehow had acquired a huge band of followers within 24 hours who also felt that somehow God would appreciate it it they stabbed the child to death, along with the Army guy. It made absolutely no sense why anyone would listen to her at all. They should have duct taped her mouth shut from the beginning. Overall, I was extremely annoyed by how predictable this movie was and how I felt like I needed to dumb myself down in order to watch it. I couldn't think logically about anything that was happening or else I would have turned it off, so I had to pretend that it was convincing just so I could finish watching it. The ending made me totally nauseas. No one would EVER do what this man did. You battle the monsters for days and risk your life repeatedly and then you think that running out of gas means QUIT?! No, you would not shoot two old people, your own ten year old son, and the woman holding him and spare yourself. That is ridiculous. The personalities that these people had we not the type of personalities that would accept giving up, and the fact that they didn't join the crazy lady's band of insanity shows that the man was not a psycho and would not have shot his child in the head and not himself. I realize it was to spare them from the monsters, but no one in their right mind could do that. Every "mission" he went on was life threatening, and all of those people put their lives at risk by getting in that car, so why commit suicide?? They wouldn't. It was stupid.