So this flick was by no means great, but it did what it wanted to do, be a good bad action flick. Swearing, blood, fighting, no CGI, I had a great time watching it. Which really surprised me cause I HATE stone cold, but even he was pretty good. If you just wanna turn off your brain and watch a well done bad action flick, check this out. And yes I have seen battle royale and the running man, and yes this rips them both off fairly liberally, but what the hell, an action flick is an action flick, enjoy it for what it is. And Vinnie Jones is great as the super evil bad guy. And it even has some social commentary about the media's influence on our culture. Granted, its heavy handed and obvious, but seeing as I was expecting a movie on par with a Segal straight to DVD flick, any level of intelligence is appreciated.

Hey, this is not going to test the gray matter but if you want an entertaining albeit violent movie to fill in a few hours this is not a bad choice. The plot is predictable but the main saving grace is Steve Austin as Jack Conrad as he comes across as a compassionate and somewhat likable hero who ended up in this predicament by trying to do the right thing for his country. He does not exactly have to stretch his acting muscle but you do end up hoping he will win through. Although much of the violence is not right in your face in parts it does carry on that bit long although this is used to separate the "no morals, no borders" team from the good guys within the production cast. This movie serves up exactly what it promises but is still an entertaining movie. I would recommend to a friend.

A very popular Japanese film called Battle Royale concerns an entire class of bad tempered middle school students forced to fight to the last survivor on a deserted island for their transgressions. Considered too controversial for American audiences, it's never been released in the states. "The Condemned" is basically a remake of that film. Instead of unruly teenagers, death-row inmates from around the world forced to kill each other for the pleasure of an insane internet magnate's 30 hour snuff reality program.Steve Austin joins 9 other on the island where they stalk and eliminate each other in some of the most violent ways imaginable. This part of the story is fairly involving, but as the violence becomes more sadistic, it no longer seems entertaining. The sobering effect spreads to the movie characters as well, too late to help the combatants. Self righteously, the producers use this as a podium to speak down to the audience who bought tickets to watch the very entertainment they are presenting.The movie is not helped by a stateside subplot involving Stone Cold's girlfriend who lives on a sprawling ranch and supports herself as a waitress.

At first glance, the storyline looks like a distant cousin to the Japanese movie Battle Royale. Instead of having sent unruly students to an island and see them finish off one another, The Condemned follows the same lines of having 10 death row prisoners from around the world being brought to an island, and given a simple rule to kill everyone else in order to earn their survival, and freedom. They are similarly rigged with an explosive device which if tampered, or if they choose not to participate, they too will be blown to bits.But there's where the similarity stops. There's no PA system to tell the scattered involuntary participants just how many survivors there are (thus leading to a loophole), and there are multiple camera rigs installed on the island, for the purpose of entertainment. The Condemned plays on some of our intrinsic nature of wanting to watch gladiatorial styled violence, and given that such content will probably never get on the TV networks, the fairly sci-fi turned reality TV over IP concept gets its airtime here. What networks refuse to screen and produce, you can, given the right equipment and personnel, and plenty of computing power.Pay-per-view IPTV using credit cards is the road to riches for the game producer Ian Breckel (Robert Mammone), who champions the thought of producing content that audiences around the world want to watch. His argument was that these handpicked participants are going to die anyway, and here, he's giving one of them the chance to live, a noble gesture to him. The Condemned mocks today's reality TV format, in that sometimes, the game can be manipulated to satisfy the producers' objectives, and we see that in abundance here.Violence it seems is high on the agenda here - how much can an audience stomach, especially if say hypothetically, Big Brother type of series allow violence to be met out live, unedited and raw. Or are you going to play to those who pay, and give in to the demand? There's a constant argument being played out early in the movie about dignity and decency, but that gets forgotten fairly easily in a film like this one, falling victim to its own preachy statements.Especially so when Sports Entertainment companies like WWE are involved in this one. WWE had its fair share of stars lending their "acting talent" to Hollywood, and I can go as far back as the late Andre the Giant lending his physical presence in The Princess Bride. Then you have Hulk Hogan in various forgettable flicks, The Rock in some charismatic roles (though some are as cheesy as that in Be Cool), and Kane in the horrid See No Evil. Here, Stone Cold Steve Austin plays the lead role of Jack Conrad, an inmate with an unspecified past, who becomes someone more than anyone had bargained for.But the star unfortunately is not Austin, as much as he plays the anti-hero. Vinny Jones, as British prisoner Ewan McStarley, clearly stole his thunder, and injected more personality into his maniacal character. While the format of the game had the prisoners from different parts of the world to allow everyone a chance to root for their home players, it was at times ironic that USA had to battle UK so prominently in the movie, and that the "with me or against me" line just brings to mind the many scenarios as played out ever so often. It's ra-ra for the USA in an in-your-face fashion, with eye-for-an-eye violence dished out for avenging the weak and wounded, and the showing of compassion to those who needs it. The make up of the team of pla yers too is interesting on purpose, with female players up against male ones (and what happens is such an easy guess), and Survivor styled formation of alliances, outwitting, outlasting, outplaying all being key to survival, but the story, with so many characters, dictate that you cannot go beyond what is superficially shown. Of course the leads got a little more background to show for, but you find that these happen to be just cosmetics, unnecessarily inflating the screening duration.The Condemned tried to be a little deep, but ended up tossing its attempts aside to settle for an all out action movie towards the end, and what I thought was bordering on the ridiculous at Austin's ability. For action junkies, the sequences here might be a little repetitive with its usual big explosions, and the extreme closeups of violence using the shaky hand-held camera technique just irritates. If the premise still excites you after all the mentioned flaws, then The Condemned managed to appeal to you with its in-movie concept - I think you'll pay US $49.95 should there be a channel like this on the internet.

Some of the other comments are way too harsh. This movie isn't trying to be the next Fletch Lives. Don't take this movie too seriously and it's mildly entertaining. The fight scenes are too choppy and tough to see and the plot is predictable, but Steve Austin is good. He has the same deadpan expression and delivery throughout and it works. The rest of the cast pretty much phones it in. A lot of these actors look familiar. Like you have seen them before, but you can't quite place them. If you like WWF, then you will probably be satisfied. I saw an afternoon show with about 15 other people and only a couple were asleep at the end. Better than Marie Antoinette.

Honestly, I really enjoyed this film. It reminded me of the good old days of action films such as Commando, Demolition Man, etc. Anyone who can endure/enjoy Stallone or Arnold in action movies certainly shouldn't have a problem with Steve Austin's acting.I think this film just gets a bad rap from critics because WWE is associated with it and no one wants to be the guy that gives them a break. It certainly won't win an Oscar, but if you enjoy action films then I'd definitely give this a chance. Just try & forget WWE is associated with it, let it stand on it's own two feet and judge it for yourself with an open mind.

My first post so forgive me if I mess it up! I saw this film last weekend and in my opinion it is worth seeing as a rental, not worth buying or paying the extra for the cinema tickets.The only really good thing about the film is Austin getting beat up by Vinne Jones (a true hard man! Just watch any of his Wimbeldon FC football games!).Other than that, it is quite predictable, there are a few surprises, but you see 9/10 things coming a mile away! Rent it, purely for the Vinnie Vs Austin scene's.Oh, for the wrestling fans wondering if Austin can "make" a film just like he used to "make" matches, he can not! The film is bad but not terrible!

There is something about those WWE films that just grab me and make me want to watch. There is always plenty of action, even if they emphasize violence and dismiss the sex to placate their fans.It doesn't matter whether it is The Rock, John Cena, or, in this case, Stone Cold Steve Austin, they deliver movies that are just fun to watch. No thought required; it is just guilty pleasure.Besides Steve Austin, we also have Rick Hoffman (Hostel), Masa Yamaguchi, and Vinnie Jones, who we first saw in Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels. It was a good cast that kept us interested until the very end, even though we knew the hero would go home to momma.Keep them coming.

As an independent movie, The Condemned kept me interested in the characters, and the actors delivered, especially Mr. Vinnie Jones and former WWE Superstar Stone Cold Steve Austin. Compared to the original Battle Royale, its not as graphic, not as exciting and doesn't catch your soul and shakes it like the Japanese Battle Royale did.of course the plot have been edited to work for the American audience, seeing that in Battle Royale, the contestants were teenagers, not convicts. I don't think that the US could withstand a Hollywood movie about teenagers going on a killing spree on each other's as the Battle Royale depicts. but the new plot works well, and makes you question how far reality TV is willing to go to entertain.Compared to other LGF/WWE movies; like The Marine and See No Evil. The Condemned is a genius action movie that work on many levels, at least more than John Cena's boring and totally unrealistic flick.7/10 and i am being harsh

I love fight scenes in films, Once Upon a Time in China, Dragon (Bruce Lee Story), Kill Bill, Conan, the list goes on... It takes time and effort to write, choreograph and perform a fight scene, so why oh why does the camera have to be zoomed in and shake so violently that you can't even see who is hitting who?The only logical sense out of shaking the camera during a fight scene, is to get the audience excited. It doesn't work, I was getting dizzy trying to see what was going on. I first really took notice of this artistic blunder during a car chase scene in Bourne Supremacy.Overall , not a bad movie to watch on a lazy Sunday morning during breakfast.

This movie started out with a few interesting scenes, and then shot through the floor and buried itself in horrible film-making. The fights are all shot close up and shaky, along with obvious punch pulling and uninventive deaths. Very quickly the numbers drop and you find yourself having to go back and count to even notice how many are left. The dialogue is terrible, with a message about violence hidden in it like an elephant behind a hot-wheels car. Its an unoriginal story, and its got so many plot holes I can't even pretend they get answered. It's going to disappoint even Stone Cold fans, because he could have torn people up so much better, and it will disappoint regular movie goers with its sub-par story, and worse storytelling. This movie is not what you are expecting it to be, and I strongly urge you not to spend your money on it when that same money would be better spent buying a stun gun and buzzing your head for an hour and a half.

There aren't really any WOW moments in this film and it's difficult to pay attention when Steve Austin and Vinnie Jones aren't on screen but still it's got something that keeps you watching.I'm not a wrestling fan but i'm aware of who Austin is and he has presence. You find yourself rooting for this guy even though you know very little of his characters background. Part of this might possibly have to do with the fact that Vinnie Jones plays such a hammy over the top right git of a villain and you can't wait to see him get his butt kicked. He's Funny and nasty in equal measure.However, take these 2 guys out of the picture and there's not really anything else going on to get your teeth into. Fear not though they don't go away for long and you can guiltily smirk again. It's also good that the humour in this film actually works and doesn't make you cringe. Worth noting, this is a huge cut above your usual action fare which gets farted out on to DVD with annoyingly persistent regularity. So if you've been waiting endlessly for a good old fashioned bruising action movie like we used to get in the 80's and 90's then this might just begin to restore your faith in this genre.

Really though this was a good movie in the end, thought this may just be a knuckle head movie with no story but the back story on Conrad sets the film up nicely and the action was enough and not too much. The Film was really well done all round.