Evil promises everything but gives away nothing. This quote, which I like very much, sums up the point of The Devil's Advocate.In this movie skillful lawyer goes to New York to pursue career of his dreams. He makes many compromises with his conscience on the way and even starts to neglect his romantic relationship.It's really unbelievable that this movie isn't more popular than it is. It's got all the elements of a serious, adult thriller. It is true, however, that this is a very disturbing portrayal of someones life going down the spiral. What makes this movie great, makes this movie disturbing and vice versa.We've all seen many movies devoting to much time to unnecessary violence only to disturb you, not to utilize it so that story line actually benefits from it. However, all the violence, nudity and disturbing material in The Devil's Advocate fit nicely with the plot. I don't remember anything disturbing not being in concordance with moral of the story - that is to point out to viewer how the Evil actually operates.Now recall the book of Genesis chapter 3, verse 1: "Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made."Many movies have portrayed Satan as an ugly, violent monster often not intelligent enough. This movie portrays the Evil one as it actually is: intelligent, subtil, patient, taunting, masquerading as the angel of light. And one more thing: He hates God. His true call is to convince people loving God does not exist.If you're looking for a movie which provocatively raises philosophical and theological questions in a way a book never could, look no further.

I watched this movie on DVD. It will be enough for me to mention that there had been no other movie where I'd had to pause the play in mere awe at the magnificence of the storyline! At a point, It was as if I could see my jaw on the floor praising in thorough amusement the brilliance, relevance-to-our-daily-lives, deepness of message, sophistication, great portrayal, top-of-the-class creativity, marvelous acting/directing/screen writing all having come together in a movie, which called for a rating of 9 out of 10 and no less, certainly, undoubtedly.Al-Pacino's acting is to no surprise as brilliant as ever, exuding confidence, proficiency and clarity as always. Keanu Reaves leaves a great master-play in his work, meeting up to the acting skills required in displaying a character of wisdom, success, love and perhaps, of vanity. Charize Theron too puts up a play of passion in its right.But what amused me more than all were the great and fantastic script-lines thrown around. All very meaningful and interesting indeed. The whole movie got me stunned and fixed at the edge of my desk seat, but the favorite part for me has to come at the end, where the theme of the movie comes to words and finds a chance as of clarifying itself in one the most brilliant ways I as one have ever seen possible! Recommended for everybody willing to enjoin on a meaningful story and a blend of excellent plays... surely a 9/10.

Of course I have seen the 1997 movie "The Devil's Advocate" before. But truth be told, I needed no persuasion to sit down and watch the movie again here in 2024, as I had the opportunity to do so.Writers Andrew Neiderman, Jonathan Lemkin and Tony Gilroy put together quite an enjoyable and entertaining script and storyline. It is a narrative that is parts drama, thriller and mystery, which actually played out quite nicely. And there is something unique about the storyline which makes the movie watchable again and again.The movie has a very impressive cast ensemble, with some pretty good talents. You know what you are getting into when you have the likes of Keanu Reeves and Al Pacino in the leading roles, and they do deliver here; especially Al Pacino, he was phenomenal in the role of John Milton. The movie also have the likes of Charlize Theron, Jeffrey Jones, Judith Ivey, Connie Nielsen and Craig T. Nelson on the cast list, among many other great talents."The Devil's Advocate" has a few special effects throughout the 144 minutes that it runs for, which helps promote the narrative quite nicely. It is not a movie that relies heavily on special effects to tell its tale, nor does it rely on special effects to be an effective movie. Instead, director Taylor Hackford makes usage of carnal situations to cement the elements of pleasure and lust that drives John Milton and his surroundings.I will say that "The Devil's Advocate" is the type of movie that you just have to watch, because it definitely was one of the more memorable and defining movies of the late 1990s. And it is quite an entertaining storyline in the movie.My rating of "The Devil's Advocate" lands on a seven out of ten stars.

I couldn't help myself but to mock certain characters during "dramatic", violent scenes because it was the only way i could cope with how awfully cringe this movie was at times. It stars out with a more nuanced vibe and has some really cool scenes where all this mystique and devil stuff is being hinted at but the longer it goes on, oh boy. It's about as deep and profound as a plate with water on it yet it's played as such an over the top grandiouse style as if (even in 1997) this was suppose to be somewhat interesting philosophy. I'd say the target audience is edgy 13 year olds. Al pacino had some cool dialogue when he wasn't going over the top, the ending was somewhat sweet and pacino's final remark was funny. It's a shame because i during the first 1/3rd or so, it seemed like such a cool movie but it turned really edgy really fast. After the 4th,5th,6th,7th,8th time the wife was having a breakdown and dumb Keanu was being super super dumb and ignorant, my eyes were rolling back into my skull.

When Kevin Lomax (Keanu Reeves in a very good turn) is lured to New York City to work for the powerful and persuasive John Milton (Al Pacino in one of the best performances of his career), the world is his oyster. He has a dream job (given to him because as a defense lawyer he has never lost a case), a beautiful wife (Charlize Theron in head-turning performance), and a luxury apartment (which his wife nearly drives herself crazy trying to decorate).But the longer he is in New York, the more life is not as it seems. His wife is going crazy, he has to defend a wealthy man accused of murder who appears to be guilty, and his boss is the Devil Himself.The movie has a tension to it that begins with the first scene, and crescendos to the confrontation between Lomax and Milton-and the ending is one of the best in recent cinema history.Pacino, who is as over-the-top as he's ever been seems to be having great fun with this role-he roars onto the screen and is mesmerizing throughout the film. His Milton is seductive, persuasive, powerful and he draws you in. His monologue at the end of the film is unforgettable and thought-provoking. Reeves gives one of the best performances of his career and his Kevin Lomax is a classic example of a little fish trying to swim in a big ocean with the gigantic sharks. He is vulnerable, but blind to this fact. His values and morals are challenged, and he struggles to keep control of his life.This is a film that I have seen time and again, and it just keeps getting better. The music and cinematography are simply amazing. This film is a keeper.

The acting (Keanu Reeves, Al Pacino and Charlize Theron) was brilliant.This film is scary as hell.Favorite quotes:"It's not a dream if it's true." "Your belly's too full, your dick is sore, your eyes are bloodshot, and you're screaming for someone to help!""It's the goof of all time. Look but don't touch. Touch, but don't taste. Taste, don't swallow. Ahaha.""Diaboli virtus in lumbis est. Diaboli virtus in lumbis est. The virtue of the devil is in his loins.""Vanity, definitely my favorite sin."

this movie received many many bad reviews, including personal opinions of friends of mine ... however, the premise, script (although thin at times) and finished product were all amazing ... keanu reeves gives an extremely surprising performance ... when it starts off he is every character he has played, not a bad character actor, but not over the top, just a regular guy... but as the story progresses his ability takes on a transformation and he really astonishes ... of course, al pacino's performance goes without saying; he is a genius in any and all of his movies ... and charlize theron is at her best as she often is in her films ... however, despite both pacino's and theron's talented performances reeves is the one to watch ... look out for the change in him ... it is completely awe-inspiring...

A hotshot Florida lawyer is hired by a powerful New York law firm. Pacino is tailor-made for the role of the larger-than-life owner of the law firm. Reeves is miscast as the whiz kid lawyer who's in for more than he bargains for; his performance is so wooden that one can see every acting muscle being flexed to no avail. Theron and Nielsen are fine as the love interests. The film is reminiscent of "Rosemary's Baby," but is not as compelling as that film. Starting with an intriguing premise, it is engaging enough for the most part, but becomes increasingly ridiculous, including a contrived finale that seems to have been tacked on as an afterthought.

"The Devil's Advocate" is a very well made film, I won't deny that. But, oddly, at the same time, it's a most unpleasant movie...and after a while I was looking forward to it ending.When the story begins, Kevin (Keanu Reeves) is winning yet another case as a defense attorney. In fact, you soon learn that when he worked as a prosecutor, he never lost as well...an amazing record. So, it's not all that surprising that a huge and very prestigious New York lawfirm would come looking for his services. Little did he realize that the man in charge (Al Pacino) is demonic....though since he's a lawyer, I found this part pretty easy to believe.Through the course of this film, you see Kevin repeatedly making bad choices and losing his soul. But how this happens...well, that makes the film a bit hard to watch at times. I could say more...but it's a very adult film and occasionally very unpleasant.This is a hard movie for me to rate. Technically, it's well made. The acting, direction and look of the film are great. But the story itself is so downbeat and unpleasant that I can see the picture is not for everyone, that's for sure.