The Patriot is NOT a documentary. It didn't pretend to be, and wasn't. Loosely based upon Francis Marion (the "Swamp Fox"), it only touched on Marion's impact on the Revolution in South Carolina. If anything, it was downplayed. For instance, in real life, he had over 150 men in his guerrilla band. The movie portrayed him as having far fewer. As a documentary, it fails on this and many other points. As a movie, it is a tremendous success.As far as visuals, they were stunning. The wide-open vistas and battle scenes were breath-taking and beautifully filmed. Yes, it was violent, but that lent a realism to the film that most other films about this era lack. The look and feel of this period was portrayed well.The acting was superb. I won't give anything away, but this did NOT (arguably) have either an entirely "Hollywood" plot – people, including civilians, DIE, as they do in war – or much of a "Hollywood" ending, despite a relatively happy one. That was impressive, and made the film genuine, exciting and at times, shocking. Plot points such as Benjamin Martin's youngest daughter's feelings about her daddy, and the romance between his son and a young girl were touching, and even emotional.I found some things complain about. Crisp, clean, brand-new Colonial American flags suddenly appear after, and during, the final battle. In reality they would have been rags by then – or at least not so clean. One bad bit of dialogue: Benjamin Martin is on the beach with his sister-in- law, and he asks if he can sit down. Her reply, "It's a free country – or will be soon," was a 20th century throw-away line dressed up with a 1780 caveat, and I cringed at it.The film was historically accurate in many respects. The formal way of speaking, plus the family-above-all, loyalty-to-The-Cause attitudes expressed throughout, were genuine, even though both are out of favor today. Children using weapons, and going off to fight on a moment's notice, was not an uncommon story, and supposedly happened in a branch of my own family. Relationships like Martin's and his wife's sister did occur, often out of necessity. I was surprised to read afterwards that the battle tactics of the last scene occurred, almost exactly as shown, at the Battle of Cowpens, including fierce hand-to-hand combat. Colonel Banastre Tarleton – the basis for the movie's character William Tavington – was indeed seen as a war criminal by American colonists at the time, and the real Tarleton even had a horse shot out from under him!But was it biased? Sure it was. Roughly a third of the American colonists were Loyalists, another third were "rebels", and another third were undecided. It would have made the story more complete and complex to portray this (or the time Tarleton mistakenly slaughtered some of those very Loyalists!) But I've read a poem online ("Ode to Valour") dedicated to Col. Banastre Tarleton's "heroic exploits" that would shame modern-day propagandists.I think we all accept that not every British officer of this era was a monster. In fact, in the movie – as in real life - Cornwallis and other British officers were appalled that the "Ghost"/Swamp Fox did not play by the rules of "civilized warfare", and chastised characters like Tavington who also breached them. The real Swamp Fox knew a bit about balance, however. After after the war, when the real Francis Marion served in the South Carolina Senate, he is said to have advocated a lenient policy toward the Loyalists. The real Tarleton survived the war, went home to write his memoirs, was seen as a hero, and was elected to Parliament. Maybe we need a sequel to cover all of these other aspects of the story. Until then, this one is a must- see.

Mel Gibson's second stab at fighting the British follows on the success of BRAVEHEART for a historical epic that feels both similar and different to the Scots blockbuster. Once again, Gibson plays a family man who has no interest in war and fighting who faces personal loss and turns into a vengeance-fuelled fighter determined to make the enemy pay for their actions. THE PATRIOT doesn't have the scope, drive or excellent scenery of BRAVEHEART, but it is still a very well made movie. Despite the three hour running time the story is never less than engaging and the focus on an individual family (with the War of Independence as the background) makes it more than watchable.I watched this on my Blu-ray player and was struck by the quality of the visuals and the excellent scope of the battle sequences. While not particularly gory, the bouts seem brutal and realistic, with the kind of money behind them to make them feel authentic (something the low-budget SHARPE adventures that ITV made could never achieve). Still, this isn't really an action or war film per se, and for the most part we stick with Gibson and either his family members or his men (there's a Robin Hood feel to the militia as they hide out in the swamps from the enemy).One of the things that makes it so watchable is Gibson himself, reaching new levels of emotion as the guy struggling with overwhelming loss and his desire for revenge. He's backed up by a stalwart cast, with fine turns from Chris Cooper, Joely Richardson, Tcheky Karyo, and Rene Auberjonois as his allies and Tom Wilkinson and Jason Isaacs as the dastardly British. To be, the script isn't perfect, and historical accuracy is low on the list of priorities (the church burning never happened – at least in this war – while Benjamin Martin was far from the clean-cut good guy he's made out to be here). Nevertheless this is director Roland Emmerich's most mature and accomplished film, an old-fashioned war epic full of entertainment.

I have been a Mel Gibson fan since his very good Mad Max and his horrible Summer City. I loved this movie and it is in my top ten favorites of all time. Mel is very believable as Benjamin Martin who fights only after he looses one son to death and one son to the army. Heath Ledger plays Gabriel Martin who goes to fight for his country despite his father's protests. I know that not all of the facts are historically correct but this is a movie and did not claim to be a history lesson. The period is portrayed very well and the battle scenes are so well done that you almost feel you are there. This movie is very graphic in the battles and if you do not like the sight of blood and other realistic battle scenes then this might not be the movie for you. I watched the entire movie and did not realize the length. I was so engrossed in the plots.

This movie is a pretty entertaining film, despite the fact that it lacks much historical accuracy and highly controversial for it criticized for demonizing the British Army, and for white-washing slavery out of the time. Still, the movie directed by Roland Emmerich of disaster movie fame, gave us a movie worth watching on Independence Day. I wouldn't be shameful to admit, that I honestly like this movie. The fictional historical war movie take place in American Revolutionary South Carolina, where Benjamin Martin (Mel Gibson) is trying to raise his family in peace. When the movie comes to his doorsteps, and his family threaten, Martin takes on the arms, to help lead the American to freedom. The movie plot is basically the same with Mel Gibson's 1995's epic film, 'Braveheart', nothing really new. Once again, he's out for revenge, this time against Col. William Tavington (Jason Isaac) whom made Martin's life, a living hell. The movie is bloody, gruesome, and violence as hell. I have never saw a movie before this that portray the Napoleonic tactics so brutal. Still, there are some very light moments, some clever comedy, and even a love-story. While, the love-story isn't as strong as Braveheart levels, with Martin love affair with his widow's sister, Charlotte Selton (Joely Richardson) and Martin's son, Gabriel (Heath Ledger) love affair with Anne Howard (Lisa Brenner). It didn't felt, too forced. The film does have a great relationship with the father/son that makes it worth checking out. I have to say, Heath Ledger was pretty much show that he could become a leading man with this film. I do think that Martin does have way too much children in the film that it's hard to keep track of them. I just glad, they didn't notice too much on them and more on him leading a rag-tag team of Militia men. The men were given some backstory, and each one was pretty interesting characters. You got the Reverend (Rene Auberjonois), the wild man (Leon Rippy), the slave (Jay Arlen Jones), the semi-racist Southern (Donald Logue) and the French Man (Tchéky Karyo). The movie also had some interesting real life historical figures played by great actors such as Gen. Lord Charles Cornwallis (Tom Wilkenson) and Col. Harry Burwell (Chris Cooper), influence and based off of Henry 'Lighthorse' Lee. Honestly, one of the best scenes in the movie, had to be with Charles Cornwallis and Benjamin Martin doing prison exchange. It was just so fun to watch. Jason Isaac's character is loosely based on Banastre Tartleton who might had cause the Waxhaw Massacre in which prisoners of war were brutally executed. The event helped to create the common image of him as a brutal commander, uninterested in the conventions of civilized warfare, but is a subject of debate, if he indeed fully did those horrible acts, himself. While, Tartleton is indeed a bit crude, he was more human, than Tavington whom is played as sadistic over the top one-dimensional evil villain. Honestly, in real life, the British Army at the time, would probably hang him or discharge him for how often, he disobey orders and how many atrocities was caused by his own hands. Another fault that some critic pick on is how they made Benjamin Martin into the hero, even with him committed atrocities as bad, if not worse, than those perpetrated by the British. Benjamin Martin is a composite figure the scriptwriter claims is based on real American Revolutionary War heroes: Andrew Pickens, Daniel Morgan and Thomas Sumter, but mostly Francis Marion. Francis Marion, the Swamp Fox, was the foremost guerrilla fighter of the Revolution; unfortunately, Marion had no qualms about slavery and he certainly didn't free any of his slaves. Hence, to make Martin more sympathetic to modern audiences, Martin is made anti-slavery sentiments and made Martin not a slave owner. This decision received criticism as a cop-out. What save the Patriot from being one-sided, is that it does not depict the American character Benjamin Martin as innocent of atrocities; a key plot point revolves around the character's haunting guilt over acts he engaged in, such as torturing, killing, and mutilating prisoners during the French and Indian War. Sadly, it get somewhat lost, once the film ends with the sappy happy ending. We never know if he still, being haunted by his actions or any new actions, he commit in this war. Rather than realistic anti-war character, Martin somehow is shoe horse as patriotism hero, even if that not the reason why he went to war in the first place. It makes no sense. Most of the war atrocities in the film, have no factual basis and parallel to the American or European 18th century wars, anyways. Yes, the movie is historical inaccurate, but the film does look like it takes place in 18th century, America. The location sets, the costumes, and the visual/special effects were all amazing. The score by John William is beautiful to listen to. Overall: Like Uncle Sam says, I want you to watch it. It's a good watch.

I'm very surprised at the lower ratings here. This is a successful example of a movie which balances having fictional characters/situations take place in a historical setting while still maintaining some accuracy. Aside from that, the acting is solid and the effects and quality for a movie made in 2000 are top notch.

I was hesitant to see this movie due to the violence I had heard about. Yes, the movie is violent.  But it is also fantastic.I love Mel Gibson as a family man.  He's always a great hero, but he displayed a warm, compassionate side too.  His scene crying over his son will break your heart.I cannot recommend this film enough.  My only regret is that a PG version is not also put out, so that younger viewers can also see it.

The Patriot is based around one Benjamin Martin, an ex-soldier, who now happily living as a family man finds himself thrust into conflict at the break of the American Revolution.He loves the Brits does Mel Gibson, "Gallipoli", "Braveheart" and here with "The Patriot", see the pattern anyone? As with the aforementioned "Gallipoli" and "Braveheart", certain liberties have also been taken with events in "The Patriot" so as to glossy up for the eager Hollywood contingent. It's not my want to scribble about the facts of Benjamin Martin (Re: Francis Marion), or William Wallace for that matter, information as such is but a mere click away on the world wide web.So casting aside the artistic licence factors, is "The Patriot" any good? Well nearly it is -- nearly. Gibson is fine, he shoulders the burden of the film with great gusto and no shortage of emotional depth. It's very easy to accept him as a staunch family man who transforms into a blood thirsty warrior. The problems, acting wise, lay away from Gibbo's central performance. Surrounded by caricature villains (though Jason Isaacs' Tavington is deliciously vile) and underwritten characters (Chris Cooper wasted and Joely Richardson is but a mere prop), Gibson has no choice but to hog the screen. So much so it ultimately turns into a one man star vehicle, which for a costume war epic isn't a great thing really.Roland Emmerich ("Independence Day" and "Godzilla") directs and handles the battle sequences very well, there's lashings of blood as men line up to shoot and dismember one and other. While cannonball's whizz, bang and tear off body parts, it's grim, yet oddly rousing stuff. Not even the overtly flag waving and sloganeering on show can off set the impact of the well constructed battles. There is of course lots of tragedy to be found in the film, and these are some what surprisingly, tenderly handled by Emmerich, but mostly it's via an on song Gibson, who remains one of the few modern day male actors capable of believable grief. All of this is given a John Williams score that suitably flits between rousing and ethereal, and things are further boosted by the sumptuous photography from Caleb Deschanel.There should have been more thought given to the racial (slaves) aspects in the conflict, and this coupled with the bad errors of under developed characters hurts "The Patriot" as a filmic exercise, not so as to stop it being entertaining, but more to stop it being a one man show. But as it is, thanks in the main to Gibson, and in spite of the overtly evident faults, it's an above average drama. 6/10

I don't know about the rest of you, but the reason I go to see a movie is to be entertained.  Some of the comments I've read about this movie criticize it because it is not historically accurate.  But as far as I remember the movie did a pretty good job of portraying the Revolutionary War without focusing on the heroes that are commonly associated with it.  The real heroes are the men who died in the war, fighting for their beliefs.  And this movie focuses on the people who fought who were common soldiers and did not go down in history as war heroes.Some of you people are too picky.  When I go to a movie, I do not sit there and think of everything that is wrong with it.  I try to have an open mind in order to enjoy the movie more.  Besides it focuses on one man and his family, and just because there were very few black people in it does not mean that the movie as a whole is not acknowledging the important part that black people did play in the war.  It shows what a father would do to protect his family.  And (spoiler?)his past makes the character 3-dimensional with all the right emotions to prove that people do not emerge from war without losing something.  Most of the characters are fictitious yet do a great job of representing the people and beliefs of that time period.The purpose of a movie is to entertain the audience who goes to see it. And for the most part,it fulfilled that purpose.  It also showed the struggle to create this country and the men who died for that cause.  It should make every American proud that they live in this country and remember all the people who died to make it what it is today.  The movie is in know way absolutely perfect, but it did its job and is a tribute to the soldiers of the Revolutionary War, considering there are very few movies focused on that particular war.

I had fairly high hopes prior to watching this movie for the first time. I actually enjoy 'period' films, and American history is a particular favorite.So I was very disappointed with "The Patriot". I felt that the director simply overlaid a generic story onto the Revolutionary War theme, and did so in a very unbalanced, black and white manner. I don't want to restate the many views already expressed, so I'll just say that my main objection to this film, was the way it assumes the viewing public are all simpletons. For example, why was it necessary for the director to bludgeon us with his obvious bias against the British in this film? I mean, how many atrocities did he require Col.Tavington to commit before he ensured that everyone in the audience was baying for British blood? Come on Mr Emmerich, haven't you ever heard of subtlety?Apart from the black and white nature of the whole picture, there were far too many totally unrealistic scenes. Are we really to believe that Benjamin Martin and his two young boys could so easily despatch an entire company of British soldiers?What a shame that what could (and should have) been a balanced, stirring narrative on an important period of America's history, was ultimately reduced to such formulaic Hollywood fluff. I sincerely hope that another studio/director revisits the topic, and does it right. As always, I suppose it all comes down to making a film that will score big at the box office, versus making a film that will actually mean something long after the movie posters for it have been torn down. If you like American period films, give "Dances with Wolves" a go - it's far superior!6/10

Spectacular and breathtaking film about the American Independence War dealing with an enjoyable family and the tragic events happening along the way . Benjamin Martin : Mel Gibson is a conscientious objector due to previous wars he suffered and he is nowadays a widower of seven children : Heath Ledger , Logan Lerman , Gregory Smith, Mika Boorem, Sky Bartusiak , Trevor Morgan ... He is a former guerrilla soldier who just wants to raise his family in peace . Unfortunately , local Redcoats as Col. Tavington : Jason Isaacs , underlings : Adam Baldwin , and commander-in-chief : Tom Wilkinson have other ideas . When Martin's idealistic soldier son Gabriel : Aussie Ledger is captured , daddy gets caught in action . What would you do if they destroyed your home , threatened your family . Where would you draw the line ? Before they were soldiers , they were family . Before they were legends , they were heroes . Before there was a nation , there was a fight for freedom . Some things are worth fighting for .Revolutionary War vengeance pic with thrills , noisy action , overwhelming fights and well-played . The main character and central axis of the movie results to be Benjamin Martin/Mel Gibson, magnificently performed , as a bloodied veteran of the French and Indian Wars , and a few years later a pacifist , but his pacifism owes as much to pragmatism as conviction to defend and care his several children . A violently idealist movie dealing with historical events about the Independence War , battles between Colonians and British army . Alongside the great Mel Gibson appears the early deceased Heath Ledger and a large cast of secondaries giving sensational performances , such as : Chris Cooper , Tom Wilkinson, Joely Richardson , Tcheky Karyo , Donald Logue , Adam Baldwin, Leon Rippy , Rene Auberjonois and special mention for Jason Issacs providing a really baddie role as sadistic colonel.Adding a rousing and attractive musical score from maestro John Williams, Steven Spielberg's regular. As well as colorful and brilliant cinematography from Caleb Deschanel. This overlong , bloody and melodramatic motion picture was compellingly produced -along with Dean Devlin- and directed by Roland Emmerich (The Day after tomorrow , Godzilla , Independence Day , Stargate , Universal Soldier , Moon 44 , Ghost Chase, Joey) . Rating : 7.5/10. Better than average . The flick will appeal to Mel Gibson fans . Worthwhile watching .

This film left me with fixed feelings. I will begin with the negative and end with the positive. What bothered me most about The Patriot are the carcicatured portrayals of the British. I know they are supposed to be 'the villains' but often their cruelty is over the top, especially Jason Isaac's character. Another annoyance is the presentation of the battle scenes. While they are spectacularly choreographed and filmed, it's absurd when characters (eg. Martin's family) are viewing them like a football game instead of ducking for cover. Despite these quibbles, I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Mel is absolutely convincing as the alternatively grieving and raging patriot. I found some of the death scenes so moving I started crying. The supporting cast is also superb and took their direction perfectly. I also enjoyed the detail payed to the costumes, props, and hairstyles. The Patriot is NOT an accurate historical docudrama but it is a rousing and entertaining well above average summer movie. Recommended, 8/10.