I was interested in seeing this remake simply to find out if it was as bad as a myriad of critics have suggested it to be . I did love the 1960 version and I am not keen on people remaking my favourite movies , but surely last year`s remake of HG Wells romantic fantasy wasn`t going to be as bad as painted was it ?Herbert George Wells wrote the source novel so why not call the hero Herbert or George ? It`s also a Victorian sounding name so why`s the hero got a name that resembles Steve Martin`s character in THE MAN WITH TWO BRAINS ? This screenplay just like David Duncan`s from the 1960 version lacks an opening hook but it does speculate that even if time travel did exist it would be impossible to change ones destiny , an interesting thought . ScreenwriterJohn Logan adds a post modernist sequence featuring both HG Wells and STAR TREK . I didn`t think the humour worked very well but I had to admire his cheek , and since everyone cycles everywhere Logan suggests that in the mid 21st century America has elected a president from the green party which no doubt caused civilisation to collapse . Like most other movies set in the far flung future there are illogical gaps in the screenplay . For example remnants of the present day would still exist . Put it like this : The pyramids of Egypt are a few thousand years old and at the present rate of degeneration they won`t exist in a few thousand years but Alexander goes 798,000 years into the future and the skeletal remains of 21st century New York still remain ! , but as I said this is a common flaw in time travel stories as is the ridiculous notion that hundreds of thousands of years into the future people will still be able to understand and speak English , so this can be forgiven on the grounds of dramatic license . My only real criticism of the screenplay is that John Logan borrows a bit too much from Duncan`s earlier screenplay , otherwise this is a fairly good adaptation on Wells groundbreaking novel . Adding the ubermorlock is an inspired idea that works very wellI`m in two minds who to credit / criticise as director . As you may know Simon Wells left the project days before the project was completed and was replaced by Gore Verbinski so for the purposes of this review I`ll refer to the director simply as " The director " , and the director does manage one show stopping moment as the camera pans out from Alexander at the end of the 19th century across an ever evolving landscape eventually stopping on a lunar colony . The most controversial aspect of the film seems to be the casting or more especially the casting of dark skinned actors as the eloi , but I fail to see what the problem is . The eloi live on the surface in bright sunlight so why shouldn`t they be dark skinned ? It`s also in keeping with the social darwinism of Wells novel . The eloi have evolved due to environment the same way as the ubermorlock has evolved , and social darwinism is totally amoral so there`s no right or wrong , or good and bad involved . I do wish people would stop playing the race card . As for the ordinary morlocks they`re superbly designed with some great make up involved but the director throws a massive spanner in the works by having them running a hundred miles an hour and being able to jump great heights which suddenly makes them unconvincing which is a great pity , they would have worked better as men dressed up rather than CGI supermen . I did like Jeremy Irons as the scene stealing ubermorlock though . A word of warning for those of you who suffer from photo sensitivity , sadly once again this is a movie that heavily features strobe lighting . I`m not epileptic which is just as well because I wouldn`t want to risk a seizure watching THE TIME MACHINE . Sadly there seems to be more and more films being produced with this technique in style used and sadly I`ve had to keep saying - Stop using strobe lighting in movies . It`s totally irresponsible for directors to do this .To sum up the 2002 remake of THE TIME MACHINE was light years away from the debacle I`d been led to expect . It`s fairly good in its own right but not as good as George Pal`s 1960 version , maybe because it lacks the charm of the former , a charm that movie had in abundance , but this version is still pretty good as remakes go

Alexander Hartdegen (Guy Pearce) is a scientist living in 1899 NYC. He proposes to his girlfriend Emma, but she's killed in a robbery. Four years later, he builds a time machine. However when he tries going back to rescue Emma, she is killed in a different way. Disenchanted, he travels forward in time to 2030 to search for a way to change the past. However he finds nothing about time travel. He jumps forward another 7 years to find the world in collapse and chaos after the moon is destroyed. He tries to use his time machine again but an explosion knocks him out. The machine keeps running until 802,701 AD when he regains consciousness.The movie works well for awhile, but the future world of Eloi and Morlock is a bit of a letdown. It takes the H. G. Wells world and makes a Planet of the Apes movie out of it. In the end, the well-made movie is let down by this. Also there is an uncompelling action ending. The movie just has nothing profound to say, and is a barely functional action movie.

When I went to view the remake of the George Pal version of The Time Machine, I went with an open mind, but also with high hopes. Surely the time (sic) which had passed between the classic version and this new one, would have allowed evolution to take its course and to deliver much of what the original merely hinted at. I was to be disappointed.I have claimed that this new version of The Time Machine, is a remake of the George Pal version, rather than a new interpretation of the novella, as I feel that the major influences on this new work to be George Pal's adaptation and the "sequel" novel The Time Ships (with its verbal Morlock), rather than the director's grandfather's work.The traveller in both works, I am proud to say, were played by Australians! (Rod Taylor and Guy Pierce). It was also nice to see Alan Young's cameo in the new version.The original Time Machine film by Pal attempted to assume that its audience MAY think about the film. When the machine was exposed to others (ie The Morlocks), it was purloined and the Traveller on all other occasions made sure that he had secured the craft or stayed near it. Pierce's traveller, likes to wander and has little concern for such security.Taylor's traveller only braved The Morlocks when he knew that fire would subdue them. Pierce's traveller has no such knowledge nor reservations about risking his life. One cannot but feel that this is an unlikely flaw.Similarly, he is easily discouraged that he can't change the past. After working for four years on building a machine, he abandons his desire when he fails in the first attempt.There is, in the new version, none of Pal's passion for our sense of responsibility to the planet; the contempt for the martial and ruthless nature of humans, and that saddened me. What was a story of a perceptive individual's desire for utopia, was perverted into a mixed up intergalactic, "the next girl will do" pseudo love story.The special effects are good. Mark Addy and Christopher Lee are wonderful. Guy and the wonderful Phylidda Law are good also, but if you have the choice, miss it at the box office and opt for the video.

In 1960, I sat in a theater at the age of 12 and was totally dazzled by the original Time Machine, going so far as to run home and recreate a model of the miniature.In the 2002 remake, the time machine itself is a gorgeous contraption of brass, spinning disks and other parts, light beams, and a force field ball that envelops the machine as it travels through time. In operation, it's a visual treat. That's about it for superlatives.As I began watching the remake, I briefly considered how much the art and technology of movie making has advanced and wondered how the remake would benefit. Unfortunately, not so much -- there was little in the way of refreshing of visuals in the movie. In fact, Alexander's travel to the future duplicates the scene of hemlines rising and falling in the shop across the way to the degree I thought they borrowed footage from the original movie. The fact that Mara and Kalen not only understand English, but speak it as if they grew up in the present day US, is a real stretch. Alexander reaches that conclusion that you cannot alter the past. However, he did precisely that when he went back and changed how Emma dies. 800,000 years into the future, pieces of the shattered moon seem to be in the same positions they were in shortly after its destruction. They should have moved, possibly back toward the moon, or to become rings around the earth. The Uber Morlock just seemed to introduce unneeded confusion and another opportunity for a knock-down fight.To sum up, Time Machine of 2002 is enjoyable for the most part, and deserves the "6" rating it received, but is clearly not the equal of the 1960 version that garnered a 7.6.

H.G. Wells is spinning.  No doubt about it.Really, this would have been a decent sci-fi/adventure movie, if it hadn't been based on a classic novel and directed by the author's grandson.  I kept hearing about how this would be the definitive version of the novel. What resulted was a pathetic and simpleminded bastardization.The novel is a great sci-fi story but what a lot of people miss when they read it (probably because they read it when they're very young) is that it's overflowing with social commentary.  The Eloi and Morlocks are a satire of the class distinctions of Victorian England, and the overall message of the film is that EVERYTHING DECAYS AND DEGENERATES, a satiric jab at Victorian complacency and their belief that their civilization would last forever. There's no love story, no romance with a beautiful Eloi woman....in the novel, the Eloi are 3-foot-tall childlike beings with a mental capacity not far above that of an animal.  The Time Traveler does befriend an Eloi woman but it's clear he thinks of her more like a pet, and anyway she's killed before the novel ends.This movie first tries to give us a totally stupid backstory as to "why he wants to travel through time."  The treacly romance and the Lessons He Must Learn are enough to make film fans vomit.The journey into the future is punctuated by a future disaster.  OK, not bad, but it would have had more punch if we had been allowed to see that mankind just generally degenerates, as in the book.  More a reflection of the times, I guess, as the George Pal version had a nuclear war take place.The general story?  Ugh.  A total misrepresentation of the novel.  The Eloi are too competent and warlike.  The Morlocks are too intelligent.  The UberMorlock is an embarrassment, and there's no setup.  He just shows up in time to be killed.  Yawn.Samantha Mumba does OK.  Guy Pearce is one of my favorites but he often seems confused and in pain.  (Reportedly he broke a rib while filming this.) He also looks unhealthy and overly thin, as if he had been ill for a long time before making this.A sad, sorry film version of one of the world's classics.  H. G. Wells deserves better....MUCH better.

Judging from the initial reaction to THE TIME MACHINE, it seemed official to me that people have forgotten how to have a good time at the theaters these days. But the surprising box office performance in the week following its release seems to now suggest otherwise.This is a really fun movie. It's a tad slow at first, but since it's only a short 96 minutes, things get going pretty quick. Guy Pearce is well-cast as the slightly-nerdy mathmetician, Alexander Hartdegen, and the special effects were very well-done (some were shown unfinished in the trailer and in the TV spots, so don't let that deter you.) Two of the best sequences are the two forward-traveling sequences, the first when Pearce begins his journey into the future, with the change from Victorian era to the future flashing by before us during a terrific pull back from the time machine all the way out of Earth's orbit and around to the far side of the moon, where a ship is coming in for a landing on a colony. The second is when Alexander is knocked unconscious by an explosion tremor in the distant future, when explosives mining on the moon have knocked it from its orbit and have caused it to come apart, showering the Earth with moonrocks, and the time machine speeds forward into the very distant future. It's a terrific sequence in which we see the geological evolution of the area in a matter of moments, from cliffside rock formations taking shape to environmental changes and everything in between. A truely awe-inspiring moment that is one of ILM's finest effects sequences.I also liked how they kept a lot of elements from the original: good friend Mr. Philby, the spider making a web at the top of Alex's greenhouse, the constantly-changing store window mannequin that appears in the building across from Alex's house, the stop at one point in the future to discover that a disastrous incident is occuring (nuclear war in the original, the moonrock shower in this version), and the entrance to the Morlock's underground lair. Even the "talking rings" in the original are sort of brought back, though this time in the form of a holographic New York City public library computer (Orlando Jones), whom Alex first encounters in 2030 and again later in the film, set nearly 800,000 years later. The Eloi this time around are not all blonde and lifeless. In the original, they calmly walk into the Morlock's lair when the horns sound. Here, they run fearingfor the lives when the Morlocks come to hunt. And the Morlock's are no longer the lumbering bodybuilders with green body paint and white fright wigs. Here they are taller, more-muscular deadly creatures with an animal-like ferocity, with incredible physical abilities and capable of fast speeds.I think this movie is a good example of what remakes should be. Keeping the concept and elements of the original, while bringing to the material something new. Pearce, as I said, is well-cast as the time traveler, who builds the machine first out of his desire to right a tragedy in his past, then ends up traveling into the future. Samantha Mumba does a fine job in her first feature film role. I'm not too fond of singers who try to make the move to acting (witness the debacles of Britney Spears, Mariah Carey, and countless rappers), but Mumba was pretty good. I have a feeling we'll be seeing her more in the near future. Jeremy Irons' role was too brief, though. Being the Uber-Morlock, I was hoping for more screen time, as well as a lengthier confrontation. But he was still good. If I didn't know it was him, I never would have guessed it. Much to my surprise, his performance is a very restrained one, never exploding into one of those bursting, over-the-top speeches about wanting to overtake the planet. I was also expecting him to attempt to use the time machine to travel back to the past and take control in a time when there were more resources, but that idea (again, much to my surprise and delight) never even comes up. He seemed pretty content just doing things in the time he was in. Still, I would have liked for him to had more screen time.I was also very impressed with the score by newcomer Klaus Badelt, who has worked mostly in association with composer Hans Zimmer, providing "Additional Music" from films liked HANNIBAL and GLADIATOR. His score here is full of action and emotion, with a heroic main theme and a really nice African tribe-like sound for the Eloi. I look forward to the release of the soundtrack, and I'll be keeping a watch for his future projects. He sounds very promising.My only real complaint is that it all goes by too fast. A full two hours would have been great.In comparison between this one and the original film, I suppose some people would say it lacks the charm of the first. The original, despite some dated effects, is still a good movie, with the always-reliable Rod Taylor. I grew up with it on video, so I consider it a childhood favorite. But I also enjoyed this version for the fun-filled action-packed piece of entertainment that it is.

You have to stop and wonder how a film that was made 42 years before this one, based on the same book and with less dazzling special effects can be better than this one! The secrets of time travel will have been discovered, indulged in and rejected as boring before I see this spectacular disappointment and colossal waste of...time again. It's a listless, plodding, mumble of a film that gets so bogged down in special effects that it never comes close to capturing the adventurous spirit of the classic H.G. Wells story. The good news is that this journey might span 800,000 years, but it will only suck 90 minutes out of your life.

The 1960 version by George Pal has stop-motion effects that seem dated now, especially compared to the dazzling images we see on the screen here, and yet I kind of prefer the earlier version. It was dated, pedantic, and simple -- or simple minded, if you like. But that very simplicity made it easier to follow the plot and to understand the points that Wells was eager to make. This version is longer, better acted, but is filled with action, some of it gory, that Pal's version wasn't very concerned with.Neither version, I gather, was that close to Wells' original. Pal's was closer in depicting the Eloi as an air-headed white-bread society with pink skins. This one is more realistic. The Eloi seem to be a mixed race. They look vaguely Polynesian -- what with body tattoos, pareus, and cowrie shells. In fact their culture looks like that of the Samoans and so do many of the Eloi themselves. If you took a sample of genes from all three major racial stocks, put them in a blender, and dumped them out on a table, they'd look like Samoans, which is not the worst fate in the world. Mara (whatever happened to Weena?) doesn't look quite as corruptly innocent as Yvette Mimieux but we can live with that.Guy Pearce is pretty good. He has a commanding face, prognathous and full of masculine bone structure, and his performance is quite different from that in "L.A. Confidential," the only other work of his that I've seen. Jeremy Irons has a bit part as the Uber-Morlock, the brains of the hypogeal gang, so to speak. He's given what I guess are philosophical points to make in his brief appearance but I must be slow because I didn't get them.The problem with these films is that they both throw away Well's reasons for why things turned out the way they did. Capitalism has led to a two-tier society (the eaten and the eaters), and evolution (still a controversial idea) had its way for reasons that Wells spelled out. All of that is missing. We don't get any reasons for the lack of sexual bifurcation in the Eloi, nor any reason for their empty-headedness. Instead, we are given the Eloi as is -- "Here they are, folks!" No hint whatever that they are the descendants of the worn-out wealthy class of earlier days.I don't mean that this film should have been a series of lectures on the future physical and cultural evolution of our society. Just that certain questions and answers could easily have been built into the story itself, particularly if some of the violent scenes, unnecessarily long, had been elided. And what the hell is the black, stinky, gooey stuff on those blowgun darts anyway? It can knock down a full-grown man but it only frightens a little girl.Overall impression: Not bad, not insulting, but it looks as if it were the consequence of a meeting of a board of MBAs who began by asking, "What NEW story is there that we can juice up with modern computer-generated images? The Time Machine? Great! Cannibalism and a destroyed earth -- a bonanza of fireworks!"

I tried to watch this film with an open mind. After all, it's not an easy task to turn a short novella into a full feature length film. And, given that this and all of H.G. Wells' stories are told by first-person narration, it would take some careful adaptation to preserve the tone of the book, much of which takes place in the narrator's own head as he attempts to rationalise the world he has been thrust into, as any pragmatic man of science would. If that sounds dull to you, worry not, because this is not a careful adaptation, it's Hollywood. To their credit, they didn't cast Brendan Fraser as the time traveller, but when you see the way they hacked up the script, they might as well have.Spoiler time, so only read on if you've seen it - or don't plan to, which is a fine idea, since this film is now 12 years old and the intervening years have spawned a number of other bombs on which you could waste an hour and a half of your life.I'll begin at the beginning, which is the first thing they ruined. The beginning of H.G. Wells' novel is full of charm and mystery that sets the scene. Time's been kind to this story, unlike some of Wells' work, and there was an opportunity to tell a really good tale here whilst still being trendy and engaging...perhaps even a little steam-punk. The dinner party, the educated sceptics, the presentation of the machine - have been omitted entirely. Replacing it is a done-to-death tale of lost love, which is presented as the reason for the time traveller's invention, because apparently science needs a feminine muse and invention for invention's sake is not enough.Speaking of love, if you were hoping to see how the nuanced, innocent, paternalistic and vaguely uncomfortable relationship between the time traveller and Weena was handled, this simply isn't there either. The Eloi aren't as you might remember them, and the female lead is far from naive and child-like - she's a teacher. You don't need to be a linguist to want to start pounding your head against the screen when she begins speaking perfect English after a mere 800,000 years.It doesn't get any better after that. Cue heavy use of CGI and scary creatures that might as well be LOTR orcs (yawn), another bad dude and a big and poorly explained explosion. Big dumb happy ending, none of the reflective scenes from the end of the book. The addition of the holographic librarian is welcome and adds a sense of continuity and comic relief that this film so desperately needs.If you're not a reader, you may get something out of this film. There are worse in its genre. To understand why I'm SO disappointed, you really have to be familiar with Wells' work. He was a thinker, a visionary, a man of big ideas. His work is philosophical, but Wells takes the role of the observer as he postulates his ideas - he doesn't pause to moralise. This film does the opposite - no room for free thought is left with the viewer; the protagonist rushes in in shining armour so that you may go home comfortable.I had high hopes for this film, given that the great grandson of the book's author was involved in directing it. I'm left wondering if he's even read the original text. Oh, Simon, in a few short generations you have become an entirely different creature from your grandfather. How positively ELOI of you! You could say Wells foresaw this, in his lesser known work "A Story of the Days to Come".