What film, filled with fantasy, magic AND physics, mild horror, adventure, humour, great action and special effects? Why it's Disney's The Sorcerer's Apprentice of course. Starring Nicolas Cage and hometown (Montreal/Canadian) boy Jay Baruchel."The Sorcercer's Apprentice" made its Canadian debut on Thursday July 8th, as the opening film feature at the commencement of the 14th edition of the Montreal Fantasia Film Festival, hosted, as it has been for the past several years by Concordia University.In one of the venue's largest theaters, about 700 of us were treated to the screening of said film, in advance of its opening next Wednesday, July 14th.And what a treat it was.After the general Festival opening announcements, Jay Baruchel (who was in attendance) introduced the film to the happy hometown audience. Then we sat back and allowed the magic to unfold.Without giving too much (or anything) away, I can safely say that The Sorcercer's Apprentice was indeed an enjoyable film.Nic Cage made good as the "just a bit" crazy master sorcerer Balthazar Blake, on the quest to find the one who could be the next to acquire Merlin's magic and defeat the evil Morgana.And Baruchel proved to be well cast as the nerdy, endearing, reluctant hero / apprentice.With a nice, balanced blend of action, adventure and pretty cool special effects. The film takes the viewer on a fun ride, reminiscent of classic Disney fun family fare. And it'd also no doubt leave you laughing out loud at some unexpected moments in dialogue.If you enjoyed The National Treasure movies, then you will certainly enjoy The Sorcerer's Apprentice.

I took my wife and my 2 kids to see The Sorcerer's Apprentice today. We saw the first showing so there wasn't a huge crowd at the doors. It is a good thing too because the heat was about 104 here in Southern California. I didn't go to the movie expecting very much after I saw the trailers but both my wife and kids had expressed an interest in seeing it. Disney basically took 2 very well known stories and kind of melded them together to make one cohesive plot. The movie had killer effects and some good acting with very big stars. I was pleasantly surprised with how much I enjoyed the movie and how they left the chance for a sequel, which I would most likely see. All and all I walked out of the theater with my smiling family and not regretting the money we had spent to see it.Thanx for reading, Robert

Okay , I will say that this movie pretty good and the CGI in this film is nothing but impressive.This movie is about a sorcerer named Blathzar Blake(Nicholas Cage) who is one of the apprentice of the great Merlin who is betrayed by his best friend Horvath(Alfred Molina) and he has to find the next Prime Merlinia(which is a longer term for the next Merlin) to defeat Morgana LeFay, enemy of Merlin who kills Merlin at the start of the movie.That was along sentence wasn't it. Anyway, Blathazar Blake manages to trap Morgana in a nesting doll known as the Grimhold. But not before losing his love interest Veronica(Monica Belucci) as she sacrificed herself to save Blake and give him a chance to trap Morgana at the same time trapping Veronica as well sealing the doll forever.Okay that's enough spoilers. Now for the review! First of all, I thought this film was pretty good. The story is god the cast is good and the CGI is .... you guessed it, good! Nicholas cage delivers a SPELLBINDING performance if I do say so myself. I mean his depiction of a thousand year old wizard is spectacular. His Witty and casual remarks are the main laughters in this film. Jay also does decent performance as he slowly rises to stardom.Although Monica's character was not that interesting at all. I believe it was there to act as a love interest only.Now the only few criticisms I have for this film is that the line are a bit clichéd and expected. Trust me, you'll know what I am talking about once you've seen the film. This film had so much potential if they only had a better script.So I am going to give this film a 7 as it displays a good story and great casting but it is the script that pulls it down

Here's the spoiler. Jay Baruchel is the worst actor in the history of films. Every word is punctuated by jerky, spasmatic over-exaggerated movements, facial tics, cartoonish expressions, and basically just the worst acting ever caught on screen. In a 150 million dollar summer blockbuster. Just watch, and pay special attention to Jay. You can watch an "actor" literally ruin a movie right before your eyes.Nicolas Cage is his usual awful acting self, but next to Baruchel he looks like the world's greatest thespian. This could have been a half decent, special effects driven popcorn movie, but Jay makes it just horrible and unwatchable.

Rating: **1/2 out of 4. I had little to no expectations for Disney's latest animated-to-live- action translation THE SORCERER'S APPRENTICE. It looked like serviceable popcorn entertainment; lots of jarring CGI effects and slapstick humor. Turns out it's true that minimal expectations help in seeing a movie in its own terms and, as family-film trifle, APPRENTICE delivers, if not much else.Exposition abounds when we are introduced to the plot, which opens in 700 A.D., where great Wizard Merlin is killed by his evil adversary Morgana (Alice Krige, in it for only a few minutes), and passes his legacy to one of his young apprentices, Balthazar (holy smoke! It's Nicholas Cage!). Before his death, Merlin hands him a tiny dragon statuette which turns into a ring which would determine the great wizard's heir. Oh yeah, Balthazar also traps the souls of other wizards, including the evil Morgana and sweetheart Monica Bellucci (barely in it for other than being, well, Monica Bellucci) inside a nesting doll called the Grimhold. Forward a thousand centuries later and Balthazar, still in search of the bearer of Merlin's gifts, finally comes upon a boy named Dave Stutler (who is what else? A total nerd!). Forward a few years more and Dave, now a geeky teenager (Jay Baruchel), is now ready to be trained with the Magical Arts (which, the movie explains, is actually more connected to modern science than we thought) and save the world. Whew! That's a lot of plot exposition for a movie based around a segment in Disney's Fantasia (with Mickey Mouse no less!). And it moves so quickly from one situation to the other. But better to throw in dozens of special effects and action sequence. The special effects are nothing new; the CGI reeks of CGI circa 1990. But this comes off a charm. With so many movies around throwing out fantasy for realism (meaning lots of shaky "you are there" camera work), THE SORCERER'S APPRENTICE is a pretty close throwback to some of those 80's effects-heavy fantasy movies usually associated with Lucas' Industrial Light and Magic effects house (the film reminds most of the effects-laden YOUNG SHERLOCK HOLMES when I saw the trailer). It's not so much as true movie magic than simply throwing in as much effects as they can to substitute for a lackluster action-oriented story.The actors aren't in such bad shape. Cage, who's been on the slums lately, is pretty good here though it's a bit of a stretch to call it an improvement over some of his previous roles. But he does have more fun here and I had more fun with him here; it's in this role did I get the feeling that he knows very well that he looks ridiculous and goes to hell with it. Same goes for Alfred Molina, turning in deliciously campy baddie with an accent Horvath. These two guys do better than the rest of the younger members. Baruchel is trying too hard to be your total loser- turned-hero character when he really shouldn't. He seemed fine doing voice-over in HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON, but he can't bring the role from animated world to reality. Teresa Palmer is your typical girl-of-your- dreams leading dame. Some actors (Bellucci, Krige) barely makes what passes as appearances. THE SORCEROR'S APPRENTICE is fun, and at a time where movies like these fail to deliver such simple mercies, it's a pleasant little surprise.

This weekend, I got to see The Sorcerer's Apprentice, the latest Disney released film from producer Jerry Bruckheimer. The plot of the movie is pretty much textbook Bruckheimer, like his film Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time which was released earlier in the year. While it's not quite as good as Prince of Persia, The Sorcerer's Apprentice is still not bad.The premise is simple enough. Dave Stutler (Played in his youth by Jake Cherry), is a kid who one day wandered into a bizarre shop, run by an out of the ordinary man named Balthazar Blake (Played by Nicolas Cage), a sorcerer. Blake offered him a mysterious ring shaped like a dragon, and after a bit of unfortunate mishaps, Dave set free Blake's arch-nemesis Maxim Horvath (Played by Alfred Molina). Cut to ten years later where Dave (Now played by Jay Baruchel) is in college, and has become quite the physics nerds, and fallen in love with an old classmate (Played by Teresa Palmer). But now, Balthazar is back, and tells Dave that the ring means he is the Prime-Merlinian, a powerful wizard who will become the successor of Merlin himself. Dave becomes Balthazar's apprentice, and together the two must stop Horvath, and an evil sorceress from, you guessed it, taking over the world.So, yeah, story is been there, done that. Awkward hero and scary mentor, threat of global apocalypse, simplistic action plot, silly comic relief, awkward romance, it's all there. But, it's what the movie does with that is why it's so fun, and the action is actually fun to watch. Fast Paced, Well staged, and I have no problems with the pacing, except for the prologue which feels pretty rushed, and the ending which feels rushed and kind of abrupt as well.Performances in the movie are fun too. Jay Baruchel and Nicolas Cage's chemistry on screen is so much fun, not only that, but they're good on their own as well. I want to give some serious credit to Alfred Molina as well, who's practically made a career out of being a scene stealer in any movie he's in. The rest of the cast, while not fully developed, most of them are fun to watch.The tech design of this movie is cool too. The visuals are nice to look at, the sound mix and design is great, and the production design is also cleverly done. Nice cinematography too, and Trevor Rabin provides a typical, yet not too shabby orchestral score.The Sorcerer's Apprentice is far from perfect. It's no Inception or Toy Story 3, but if you're looking for a fun, entertaining popcorn flick to spend two hours at the cinema, then this one isn't a bad choice.I give it **1/2 out of ****

In 740 A.D., in Britain, the disciple of Merlin Maxim Horvath (Alfred Molina) joins to the wicked Morgana le Fay (Alice Krige) and betrays his master. However, the other two disciples of Merlin Balthazar Blake (Nicolas Cage) and Veronica (Monica Bellucci) defeat the evil and Balthazar traps Horvath in a magic vessel and Veronica merges with Morgana and they are trapped in another recipient. Along the centuries, Balthazar unsuccessfully seeks out the Prime Merlian, the only sorcerer capable to destroy Morgana, using a dragon ring and he finally finds him in the present days in Manhattan. The clumsy nerd Dave Stutler (Jay Baruchel) is chosen by a magic dragon ring and Balthazar teaches magic to him. However the sorcerer's apprentice is in love with Becky Barnes (Teresa Palmer) and questions whether he is really the chosen one. The deceptive "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" is an awful collection of clichés and special effects with a dreadful nasal lead actor. The annoying Jay Baruchel is not funny and is also one of the worst actors I have ever seen, and he ruins the film. The predictable story uses all the imaginable clichés, with explosions, car races and special effects trying to be attractive. I do not understand how a producer invests millions of dollars in a film with Jay Baruchel in a lead role, and why Nicolas Cage and Monica Bellucci accepted to work in this flick. Jay Baruchel should use his payment to go to a speech and language pathologist and have acting classes. My vote is three.Title (Brazil): "O Aprendiz de Feiticeiro" ("The Sorcerer's Apprentice")

The movie would really have been a very good one had Jay not been the main character. His acting was horrible. He speaks in an animated voice, making grimaces, and trying to be overly foolish. To be precise, Jay appeared like an animated character. Other than his acting, everything in the movie was good. But since he was the main character of the movie, the entire movie was ruined. His acting was similar to that of star war's Hayden Christensen.By the way about the videography, sound and graphics, I would rate it 9/10. Also acting of all other actors including Cage, Molina were very good.So I opine that you should watch this movie only if you could tolerate Hayden Christensen's acting in star wars 2 and 3.Please rate this review after reading it.