Lovely, thoroughly enjoyable movie with lots of nice words and thoughts exchanged, some to make you laugh, some pretty profound to make you ponder on. Who would've ever thought that a story about two dying men could be such fun. Edward Cole (Jack Nicholson) and Carter Chambers (Morgan Freeman), so far complete strangers, with rather different economic and social backgrounds (billionaire hospital magnate and body shop mechanic), both terminally ill, thus inevitably at closing stages of their earthly lives, meet and, in order to try to experience things from their "bucket list" (a list of things to do before one "kicks the bucket", i.e. dies) before the final curtain falls, embark on nothing less than an amazing journey. Although age-wise much too "developed" for many youthful activities they engage themselves in, and despite their individual differences, however sufficiently open-minded and open-hearted, two protagonists, through their earnest performances and their great interaction easily draw us into their well believable story (with single fantastic twist at the end... (spoiler)... realization that rather than through eyes of the still surviving one, the story was told from the mind of his ensuing spirit), whether (constantly) putting smile on our face or tears to our eyes, ergo covering (well, for us viewers) one of listed items, "laugh till I cry"....On a more personal note, eight years ago when I first saw this movie in a theatre, I was a solitary man, going fifty, thinking that I have already experienced things which could make my "bucket list" (climbed high mountains (Mont Blanc, Gross Glockner, Triglav, Durmitor, Fujiyama, Kilimanjaro... to name a few), visited Great Pyramids, well not Great Wall of China, but at least Great Wall of Ston, well not Taj Mahal, but instead many other magnificent temples (Angkor Wat in Cambodia, temple of Karnak in Egypt, temples of Nara, Japan... to mention a few), been on safaris in Tanzania and Rwanda...) to reference those matching items pursued in the movie. Now, after its second viewing, coincidentally on my wife's birthday, I'm almost sixty realizing that only by starting a family and having this cute little toddler of ours to chase and play with every day (and... quoting another listed item, in "kiss(ing) the most beautiful girl in the world", compete with her mother), I have pushed my life's wish list much closer to completion...Finally, after a decade of his successes in 80-ies and beginning of 90-ies with movies that I have enjoyed watching very much ("This is Spinal Tap" (1984), "Stand by Me" (1986), "The Princess Bride" (1987), "When Harry Met Sally..." (1989), "Misery" (1990), "A Few Good Men" (1992)), "The Bucket List" marks Rob Reiner's successful comeback and it stands as his easily the-best-of-the-new-millennium directorial effort thus far.

The quiet mechanic Carter Chambers (Morgan Freeman) is a man with a great general culture; has been married for forty-five years with his beloved wife Virginia (Beverly Todd) and has two sons – one lawyer the other engineer – and a violinist daughter. The caustic and bitter billionaire Edward Cole (Jack Nicholson) owns many hospitals, has many divorces and one missing daughter. Following the policy of Edward, his hospital makes no exception giving a private room to him and he shares the same room as Carter. Along the days, they become close to each other and when Edward finds in the garbage the bucket list that Carter had prepared, listing all he wanted to do before dying, he includes his own items and invites Carter to a journey of friendship, discoveries and redemption."The Bucket List" has a wonderful screenplay, two fantastic actors and a predictable story about the journey of two terminal patients with cancer that find friendship, discoveries and redemption. The contrast between the two lead characters offers very beautiful moments with witty and spirituous dialogs alternating with funny and dramatic scenes. This is one of those movies that bring happiness to the viewer in spite of the unpleasant theme – illness and death. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Antes de Partir" ("Before Leaving")

A simple premise done magically is all I can say about this movie.Morgan Freeman and Jack Nicholson are by far and away two of my favourite actors. Jack Nicholson is just funny, no matter what he says or does, ever since Terms of Endearment he has made me laugh so hard that I cry and Morgan Freeman is just the best actor going around. I find it hard to remember a bad movie that he has done.Probably not everyone will like this movie but it is definitely up there with the best feel good/sad movies that I have seen....and it has a moral that most of us miss in our hectic, live for the now short lives.This is going to be up there with the best at the Oscars in 2008.It will make you laugh and cry all at once...it did me.

You know that feeling when you walk out of a movie and think "God, that was just such a great film"? It takes a lot for me to think that... especially when it's a movie about two men who have cancer... but this movie really did it for me, as well as everyone else in the theater. I saw the movie at its first ever screening in Pasadena and it was just wonderful... even with temp music and unfinished visual effects! Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman were truly amazing together - it's a film about cancer, and yet the two were able to balance the comedy and the drama of the script in such the perfect way that the audience loved every moment of the movie. The script was quite original, which was such a breath of fresh air, and the acting couldn't have been any better. I would recommend this film to anyone and everyone - as it was such a feel-good movie that made you both laugh and cry at the same time - something you don't come across too often. Not only did the audience applaud the movie at the end, but EVERY single viewer who stayed to give comments agreed that the movie was "Excellent"... I can't imagine how often that happens. I'd be surprised if this movie isn't up for some Oscar or another come next year.

Greetings again from the darkness. Yes, this can be viewed as Hollywood formula with mass appeal and loads of stereotypes and clichés. On the other hand, it can be taken as a very accessible commentary on friendship, companionship and finding the joy in life. I prefer the latter. Either way, it does require a certain suspension of reality. Just ask Roger Ebert, who has made it his personal mission to bash the film.Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman are both in prime form, and after a string of weak films, director Rob Reiner does a masterful job of keeping Nicholson from going over the top and from having Freeman kill us with sweetness. Even more impressive is the pacing of the early hospital scenes ... nothing is forced, no line of dialogue or shot seems hurried. This is two patients coming to grips with their situation. While the worldly travels are impressive, my favorite parts of the film are the scenes between the two beds in the same room.On the downside, will someone please tell Hollywood that Morgan Freeman in the cast does not mandate a blasted voice-over from the man? We know he has a great voice, but if the narration adds nothing to the story, please just let the film do its thing.There are some laugh out loud moments and one-liners, but there are also some strong moments of drama ... death has a way of creating those. This is a combination of road trip, buddy film and coming-of-age ... very unusual for two senior citizens! So while the story line surprises are few, sit back and enjoy excellent acting (including Sean Hayes), wonderful direction and a few life lessons. Good stuff for a movie that all ages can enjoy.

I must say that watching this film was certainly a joy I was told that this was a must-see and i wasn't disappointed.Morgan Freeman and jack Nicholson put on a great performance and made the film great.Besides this, i think that the storyline is certainly well-developed and had a strong hold on me.The only downer i cold point out would be the depressing beginning but that's about it! The rest was lovely.I can guarantee that many elders will find this a warm-hearted flick to see.

On new years day, 2008, I saw the film "The Bucket List." It was not my first choice of a film that I wanted to see. To be honest, however, I probably would not have enjoyed any of the films that I would have chosen more. This film is very well done. I liked the screenplay, by Justin Zackham. I liked the direction, by the real talented Rob Reiner. And I was very impressed by the acting. Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman did a superb job, playing two dying old guys who befriend each other, and together have the adventure of their lives. The film is very good. The plot involves this hospital owner-Edward Cole-who is dying from cancer, and another cancer victim-Carter Chambers-who meets Cole while getting treatment at the same hospital. After they both find out that they each have only a few months to live, they agree to travel together all over the globe, and follow this list of tasks. They call it the bucket list.Nicholson gives a real touching performance as Ed Cole. He plays Cole funny, sad, stubborn, angry, strong, fearless, and loud. Morgan gives an equally touching performance as C. Chambers. He plays Chambers smart, cool, romantic, funny, fearless, and emotional. Both men are very moving in this film. They are great sharing the screen. I really enjoyed watching them play scenes together. It was for me a real treat. These guys, Nicholson and Freeman, are two of our finest actors. And this film is no exception.Even though "The Bucket List" is a small film about friendship, and the meaning of truly living, I do not recommend it for the preteens. There are some very adult scenes. However, families with teenagers will enjoy seeing it together.Josh Weinman

I can tell if a movie is good by the way it keeps me riveted to the story. And this is no exception. It's no surprise that a movie with highly talented actors like Nicholson and Freeman would be good. It's not that I'm normally attracted to movies with a deep inner meaning, but this is one movie which didn't beat you over the head with it. I mean, here are two guys who are facing death and decide to go out & do all the things they've ever wanted to. Some scenes are dramatic, others are funny, and in the end, the deep inner meaning just kind of shines through without a bunch of sappy sentimentalism. And yes, I did get a bit watery eyed near the end, which means this is a good story that you can get into & feel part of.

Usually I'm not into these kinds of movies, but with the casting of Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman I had to see it. I'm really glad that I decided to give this a try.The story is quite predictable, but I still enjoyed it. Never mind how impossible the storyline is because it is a great movie about friendship - how two men become great friends in a short time and help each other out throughout the time they are together. It moves along at a smooth pace and I never got bored, so the writer gets credit for that. The acting was top notch as Nicholson and Freeman draw forth the right emotion in the audience at the right time. The emotional parts are done just right, but the funny scenes are the best. I laughed throughout the movie but not as much as I would in a true comedy movie, but the comic scenes in this one really work and Nicholson is the "main man" in them. It does have a message at the end about how you should live your life to the fullest, how your family is important, and how you should be happy in life and the movie delivers that message perfectly.Other than the predictable storyline and the sometimes cheesy dialog, the movie is great. I would recommend it to anyone that is looking for a feel-good movie.8/10

From morbid time to time, I'd wonder what my own bucket list will be, when I'm given a certain number of months left to live. Will I have things to accomplish being totally selfish for personal glory, or will the list consists of things that're more charitable toward others? It's easy to to have the former I suppose, and easily quantifiable goals such as travel the world and the likes, but I'm beginning to appreciate the meaningfulness of making a difference in the lives of others, especially so since I think I haven't done anything in that respect.Two of Hollywood's veteran actors, Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman, team up as two unlikely characters turned friends when they find themselves holed up in the same hospital room seeking treatment for their terminal illness. And they cannot be more different of course. One's a family man, earning his keep in a modest job, whose source of entertainment is trivia. The other's a billionaire, having a personal assistant attend to his every whim and fancy, and having generally a mightier-than-thou attitude toward everyone, unleashing caustic remarks toward others for the heck of it.Through their interaction, they soon find common ground in having an obstacle in their lives to overcome, and that's whether to sit around and mope, hoping for a miracle cure, or to go out there and do things that they've always craved to do, of course with money never being an issue because one of them's a loaded man. So off they go on the adventure of their lives, visiting exotic countries, and taking risks that they don't normally accept. It's easy though to diss their list as implausible to mimic because frankly speaking, one does really need a lot of cash to accomplish exactly what they did. Needless to say, both Nicolson and Freeman are such strong actors, that you really wonder if they're really acting their roles, or are genuinely enjoying themselves as they feed off each other's energy as they have fun with the taskings.But if you take a step back and examine the list, they are in fact quite modest statements, which the characters themselves joke about as being quite lame and without balls. It depends on how one interprets those statements I guess. A majestic view can be a view from the highest of mountains or from the depths of oceans, or it can be, in simpler terms, like one of the most beautiful evening skies I've witnessed in a long while when walking to the cinema.And to top it all, it's again a reminder, like all films dealing with death as a subject matter, to live your life to the fullest every day, and not let it go to waste. Some of us are so busy trying to figure out our purpose in life that we fail to live it, and some, never taking a step back and appreciate what we already have, until it's too late. For now, my bucket list will look something like this: Witness the Aurora Borealis, trek around the world on a modest budget, race in an F1 car, and hey, I share one with the characters too - kiss the most beautiful girl in the world. Some of course could stay impossible dreams, but that's what makes it a bucket list, right? The last chance to go all out and complete the taskings. What's yours?

Two of Hollywood's Greatest actors bounce off each other in this bittersweet comedy - the likes of which are a sad rarity. There are so many emotions portrayed by the two leading roles ( as well as supporting actors )it's like a roller-coaster ride in slow mo ... This is a must see for anyone wanting a feel good movie , it won't disappoint.This isn't a fast paced action movie with no guns a-blazing or exploding helicopters but a timely reminder that as acting goes, these two guys are far from "out to pasture", OK i'm slightly biased here as i have followed these two actor's careers for over two decades now and nothing surprises me about this movie ...GO SEE IT !!!

What if you get to know about the day you die? It's said that knowing the day of death makes one liberal from all those chains and bonds and probably it shows a clear path to go with what you really want in your life, you are bought to this world with no intentions but in the course of life you gradually ''try'' to find a way of happiness just like the calf finding for the hay.2007's 'The Bucket List' has that ''feel better'' stuff and the concept of Hope that always keep you alive and young, this movie is about a genius mechanic and the insane lonely business tycoon who are diagnosed with the cancer and decide to pursue in fulfilling their ''Bucket list'', they both get into some really crazy stuffs like skydiving, African Safari, racing cars, riding on the China wall and reaching the Himalayan summit with only intention to have their life fulfilled with joy and sense of content, both help each other to make feel better and lead their way in making their living meaningful, ''one day your life will flash before your eyes. Make sure it's worth watching'' this single quote from this movie summarizes the entire story.The movie takes you in its narrative pattern and helps in getting along with the character and their feelings all through the story, its Jack Nicholson an actual super star of his kind who truly grab your attention with his ''go free'' kind of role and Morgan Freeman as usual portray his typical classic way of performance, this work is something different from the traditional movie making style and try to convey the valuable message for the life, it's the journey of discovering oneself.

The first thing that came to my mind after reading a small review on our local movies web-site was a film Knockin' on Heaven's Door by Thomas Jahn which is actually one of my favourite movies ever. And the question for me was something like "Is it possible for someone to make as much brilliant film as Knockin' on Heaven's Door was, basing it on the story that is pretty much the same?".That was really striking, but the answer, it turned out, is yes, yes and yes. The Bucket List is the kind of a film after watching which you came out of the cinema realizing that it couldn't been made anyway except the way it was actually made. And the actors (Freeman and Nicholson were really perfect) were the only ones who could play such roles.I don't wanna talk about the meaning of the film and it's essence, cause' everyone can find something special for himself. But it's a film that really worth seeing. And one more evidence of this were those tiny drops of tears which were running down my face as the light was turned on...