The Sixth Sense enjoys being playful with our imagination. What your eyes see is not exactly what it is. What your mind paints is not exactly what there is. In the world of The Sixth Sense logic is your worst enemy.There are obvious (and sometimes less obvious) hints right in front of you but you don't grasp them because of your preconceptions and premises. I once read a novel called 'Somewhere carnal over 40 winks' which used similar techniques found in this movie, but in writing. I'm sure you will enjoy this book as much as I did, if you like to be intellectually surprised.If you haven't seen this movie, don't read reviews and don't talk to your friends who have already seen it. The movie is very much susceptible to spoilers. It is suffice to say that the ending is just shockingly delightful.I don't consider this movie heavily philosophical or thought-provoking. Having said that, it is one of the movies I love to watch again and again.

The Sixth Sense is a brilliant film, plain and simple. It is unique in that it relies on imagination and psychology to scare you and make you think twice about the world around you. The director did a fabulous job constructing the imagery of the film, and I genuinely did not know about the ending until it was revealed. Quite a shock! The Sixth Sense goes in my book as the single greatest psychological horror film I have ever seen. Anyone who bashes it are simply not giving it a chance or don't fully realize the complex dialog and imagery around them. Brilliant

I am embarrassed to admit that the only reason I saw THE SIXTH SENSE when I did was because THE BLAIR WITCH PROJECT was sold out. I hadn't seen BLAIR WITCH yet but I heard great reviews, and of course it was sold out when I went to see it. So my friend and I decided to see THE SIXTH SENSE instead. Not only did it turn out to be a better movie than BLAIR WITCH is, but it turned out to be one of my favorites.THE SIXTH SENSE is about an award-winning child psychologist Dr. Malcolm Crowe (Bruce Willis), who is depressed because one of his former clients committed suicide because Crowe was unable to help him. Cole Sear (Haley Joel Osment) is a child that has social problems frighteningly similar to Crowe's old client, so Crowe decides he will try to help this child in order to find redemption. Cole later reveals that this problem goes well beyond normal social problems. He claims to be able to see the ghosts of dead people, but no one else can.The acting in THE SIXTH SENSE was superb. Olivia Williams does well as Anne Crowe, Willis' depressed wife, and Toni Collette does a great job as Lynn Sear, Osment's loving mother who is very concerned for her child. I think that Bruce Willis is at his very best in this movie, and I happen to be a fan of Willis. But I think that Haley Joel Osment stole the show. He did an amazing job, expressing more combined emotions that most adult actors have to deal with. He is definitely the best child actor I've ever seen, and I am glad that Bruce Willis let him have the spotlight.The plot is very entertaining, though at times you may wonder where it is going. The ending is the best part of the movie, and it completely changes whatever you originally thought of the whole story line. I applaud the advertisers of THE SIXTH SENSE for not leaving a trace of the surprise ending in the previews of the movie (unlike DOUBLE JEOPARDY) and I certainly will not give it away in this comment. But I will say that it will completely surprise most all of you. (I think many that say that they saw it coming are probably lying.)THE SIXTH SENSE is one of my favorite movies, and I think it is surely one of the best films of 1999. I hope it wins many Oscars this year, and I recommend that you go out and buy this movie now.

Cole Sear had a special gift, the ability to see dead people, his mother Lynn is worried beyond belief at the change in him, and Child Psychologist Malcolm Crowe is brought in to help him.For my money, this is still the best film from M Night. Shyalaman, since this film some have been good, some of been woeful, this however has stood the test of time.A real mind bender, this film is thought provoking, dramatic, unsettling at times, and on occasion a little moving.Arguably one of the best films for Bruce Willis, he's tremendous here, as are Toni Collette and Haley Joel Osment.I would never dream of giving a spoiler away, as some have done in their reviews, there's a big moment in this film, where everything falls into place, it's very skillfully done, and a real jaw dropping moment.9/10.

Shyamalan at his very best! I said it, I don't care what people think. Many people claim Unbreakable to be his best film till date, but for me, as much as I love Unbreakable, The Sixth Sense will always remain as the best Shyamalan had to offer.Good : It's his masterpiece. Shyamalan has never been better. What does it not have? Emotions, drama, character development, storytelling, great writing + directing, all of it. Willis does a really good job. It is perhaps the first time I saw him in a role like this, one of the best examples of casting against type. The arc of the child played by Osment and that of Willis have been given full justice. Seeing them help each other overcome their problems and fears in the way they did was very good. There are some emotional moments which hit the right notes, all because we have known the characters very well. We get a happy ending for the kid, and while expecting something similar for Willis, we get the infamous twist. The first time I watched it, I was blown away. It feels kind of obvious having it watched so many times now, but man was it incredible! Bruce was dead all the time. This made me analyze some parts. Bruce died with the bullet on his abdomen, and in a scene where he is getting out of a flower shop seeing his wife with another guy, he is clutching the exact place where he was hit. And in every scene after he was shot, his interactions with his wife feel and are obviously him talking to her, but her talking to herself. For a first few views, it is unnoticeable. And, it doesn't even feel that way. Also, Willis is not interacting with physical object. What I thought of a plot hole in the first few viewings were actually genius writing and directing. And I would also like to talk about the horror aspect. It's something I call genuine horror. There are creepy stuff going on and you don't know what is actually happening. It's not a horror movie but has got the elements perfectly. And of all the emotional parts, the final moments after the twist hit perfectly. I wonder why this wasn't an Oscar worthy film.Bad : Not necessarily bad about the film. But Shyamalan was called the next Spielberg after this film. His next great film was Unbreakable, followed by Split. Split was good, but nowhere near the former two, which was leaps and bounds better than Signs and Glass. And besides these, I don't even want to name the rest of his disasters. I still think he can make real good films, but comparing most of his films, I sadly feel that he was no Spielberg but just a one hit wonder.Conclusion : It's the greatest Shyamalam film ever. Unbreakable is a close second. Those who think Shyamalan didn't have any potential must watch this. It is just that Shyamalan must have stayed this way. Also, any thriller fans out there? Watch this immediately, if you haven't watched it.Rating.Score : absolute 10/10Grade : A+

"The 6th Sense" was a big hit in 1999, Oscar nominations, the lot. Now I finally seen it and I must say that with the benefit of hindsight, the only startling thing about the film is the introduction of the sensational Haley Joel Osment. Plus, a terrific performance by Toni Collette. Other than that, the film is a mess. Am I wrong? A clever designed twist at the end seems to justify, clumsiness of major proportions. Just look at that wake where Haley reveals the message from the dead girl. Unforgivably lame. All the jolts are underline by a vulgar strike in the music score department. Really bad. Mr Night Shaymalan got very luck in 1999 and has not been able to repeat its fortune since, no matter the obvious, desperate attempts to grab another jackpot. "The Happening" was unwatchable, "Lady In The Water" the work of someone with a an alarming mounting ego. "Signs" another clumsy, half cooked semi idea. Strange, how time puts things in perspective. I was recently reminded that "The Towering Inferno" was also, in its day, nominated for an Oscar as the best film of its day.