If "The Bank Job" were fiction, it would be a fairly decent robbery caper. As it is, "The Bank Job," a veritable documentary and realistic whodunit, is awesome. Unlike most films, this one requires a couple of advance tips: First, watch it with the improbable idea in mind that most of it is actual, hard-to-believe truth; second, don't be impatient. As the story of a 1971 bank robbery begins, the setting in London, the parade of seemingly unconnected stories and characters is rather confusing, complex, disjointed. But stay with it - there is a crescendo of excitement and excellence. The true elements of "The Bank Job," some hidden until recently by Britain's "D Notice" censorship law (modified in 1993, becoming DA, or Defense Advisory) are these:1. A big bank robbery did take place on Baker Street in 1971, culprits never found, money never recovered. After initial big headlines, the story disappeared from the newspapers. 2. There was serious police corruption in London in the 1970s, cops on payrolls of drug dealers and pornographers.3. Princess Margaret was involved in a series of affairs, some caught on compromising photos which were not published by the otherwise relentlessly sensational British press, under the D-Notice rule. 4. There was a militant British black-power advocate, called Michael X, involved in a one-man, multi-country crime wave. (In 1971, John Lennon paid for Michael X's bail, something not mentioned in the film.)"The Bank Job" director Roger Donaldson (of "No Way Out") brings together all these true threads in a way that may be true even in its totality, director and cast prevailing over some shoddy work from too many writers. The content is all true, the context is excitingly possible. Did the government, in trying to prevent exposure of Princess Margaret by evidence in Michael X's possession, mastermind the bank robbery? Was MI-5 or MI-6 (says a policeman in the film: "I never remember which is which") involved, and actually assisting the robbers? Again, possibly. The cast is remarkable: Jason Statham is the ringleader, the bad guy of "Transporter" and "The Italian Job" turning into a scourge of the really bad guys. Saffron Burrows, James Spader's vamp nemesis on "Boston Legal," brings her remarkable name and looks to the criminally and emotionally ambiguous major female role.Peter De Jersey is a totally scary Michael X; David ("Poirot") Suchet is a frightening crime lord; and a whole host of top British stage actors fill in big roles and small ones. Don't be misled by reviews speaking of a so-so thriller - "The Bank Job" is a great deal more than that, even to the point that you may want to see it more than once.

Sold to the American public as another D-level action pic staring Jason Statham, "The Bank Job" is actually a crafty British heist flick based on an incredible true story. The screenwriters deserve credit for creating a serviceable script with so many intertwining stories based on little actual evidence, conjecture, here-say, and conspiracy theories revolving around royal and political sex scandals, militant Caribbean drug lords, undercover MI5 agents, bumbling crooks, crooked cops, and double-crosses and cover-ups. It could've easily been a confusing mess, but providing the viewer pays attention, "The Bank Job" gets the job done as crackerjack entertainment.Though aptly directed by veteran Roger Donaldson, the film does suffer from an overly salacious opening ten minutes designed to grab the audience's attention, some shoddy editing, and an intrusively bad action-style music score. There's also an attention to 1970's period detail in the dialogue and clothes that comes across as caricature and adds an accidentally humorous undertone to the otherwise cold-as-ice affair. However, the details of the "truth is stranger than fiction" tale and the fun had by the ensemble cast make for a breezy way to spend a few hours.Donaldson also has an eye for the ladies. Led by a smashingly gorgeous Saffron Burrows (looking like a European version of Michelle Pfeiffer circa 1992), the powerful women depicted in "The Bank Job" are far more than just eye candy. Statham is also fairly good as the head of the bank robbing crew, and when he finally throws a brick at a guy near the end of the film, it will put a smile on any action fan's face.Things get tidied up a bit too nicely in the end, where it seems only the really villainous characters have to face justice, but before the credits role, there are a series of real-life epilogued details plastered on the screen that make the viewer realize maybe this all really did happen. Now that's a jolly good show.

In this serviceable but not extraordinary film based on real events and set in 1971 London, a group of amateurs pull off a bank robbery that goes wrong in a lot of interesting ways. Prompted by an ex-model former girlfriend named Martine (Saffron Burrows), Terry (Jason Statham) recruits a group of friends to tunnel into the safety deposit vault of a Lloyd's Bank on Baker Street. The alarms at this particular branch are temporarily off for adjustment of a new system, just as Martine told Terry they would be. The metal drawers hold millions in jewelry and cash. Things seem pretty dicey more than once during the ambitious robbery, but the crew does succeed in taking away the loot.It's not the robbery that matters, though, but the complications arising from the fact that in the drawers besides money and diamonds there are a lot of dirty secrets (the phrase "Pandora's box" is even used). The madam of a fancy brothel has stashed photos of high level gents and ladies doing all sorts of naughty things at her establishment. Another box contains records of a Soho porn czar's payoffs to a corrupt police officer. And still another has scandalous snapshots belonging to the sleazy slumlord and fake black radical, Michael X (Peter De Jersey), kept to blackmail the government. These include photos of an adulterous royal, Princess Margaret, and it's the need to conceal her scallywaggery that's prompted a boss at MI5 named Everett (Richard Lintern), who's been dating Martine, to set off the whole caper, calling on her because she's said she knows some "villains." She must comply, because he's gotten her off a drug-running charge.The Bank Job has a retro feel; unfortunately a mid-level director like Donaldson can't really compete with the best of the old heist flicks this one resembles in its more mechanical aspects. For instance, a foreign expert is brought in, and he gives a demonstration in a basement, much like Cesar le Milanais in Jules Dassin's Rififi--but the memory is devastating, because this movie is nowhere near as fresh and suspenseful and atmospheric as that Fifties gem. Of course this isn't meant to be taken quite that seriously--though it isn't meant to be farce either; it's too involved in its reinvention of real events for that. There's a successful effort to make the accents and lingo authentic, and the grungy images achieved by cinematographer Michael Coulter and intrusive music (by various hands) sort of evoke the Seventies. Unfortunately in all the complicated stuff that happens, this movie forgets what it wants its tone to be. Sometimes it's light and funny, sometimes it's just factual and hurried, and when the cohorts get tortured by the nasties, it's pretty grim.The subplots of the parliamentarians and the MI5, crooked cops and porn dealer Vogel (David Suchet), Terry's straight family life with two girls and wife Wendy (Keeley Hawes), at times seem overly complicated, but the movie would collapse without them, and film editor John Gilbert deserves credit for keeping things energetic and flowing by shifting scenes in ways that make this machine seem to be running on all four cylinders. The writing of Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais, an experienced pair with some admirable credits, can't be faulted from page to page; but they're trying to weave in too much material. There's another subplot of a ham radio operator who by chance intercepts the robbers' walkie-talkie communications between Terry and his rooftop lookout Eddie (Michael Jibson). All things considered it's surprising all this stuff flows as well as it does. Lively English acting helps here to make the various groups of characters, especially Terry's team, not hard to keep track of. Jason Statham stands out, with his big face, short hair, and perpetual three-day's growth of beard. That may not be a very Seventies look (and indeed the Seventies are sometimes forgotten in the film), but he has an intensity that makes his character feel stronger and more authentic than even the most able of the other cast members; it's his film, and that's another thing that helps save The Bank Job from becoming totally mediocre. It has a strong center.The ham radio interception gave the robbery its press name, "the walkie-talkie bank job." The police still couldn't pinpoint which bank the voices were coming from, but they broadcast tapes of them on commercial radio the next day seeking identifications. The job was done on Sunday, and Monday morning of course Lloyd's employees find out which bank was robbed soon enough. Several of the robbers come to grief when captured by the crooked cop and his porn associate, but four days after the robbery the government issues a a D notice, forbidding any further press coverage in the interests of national security, and the other fledgling thieves slip away, with mutual wink-winks and a turnover of all the incriminating materials to authorities. A majority of the box holders did not report their losses, end titles say, so by implication they were all up to skulduggery; even the money was largely dirty. Oh, those naughty Seventies.

Film-making at it's finest.Nothing loud and boisterous. No over-stylized cinematography, pointless set-pieces, cheesy dialogue, or over-flowing emotions.A perfect example of why the finest movie-making talent in Hollywood is British. And possibly the best caper movie of recent times.Had this been from Hollywood, every fine detail of the complex subtext in the story would have been blown apart. Instead, everything is under-played, the characters are superbly realistic and believable, and the script sharp as a pin. And the cast is a brilliant ensemble.Worth many repeated viewings for the subtle humour and to get the most out of the twisting plot developements.

Greetings again from the darkness. Based the true story of a bank heist in 1971 London, this is a slick little movie with nothing really new to offer. Long time director Roger Donaldson is known for both fluff such as "Cocktail" and quasi-action films like "The Recruit". His best film is a bio-pic called "The World's Fastest Indian". While this one is not at that level, it is easily watchable, if ultimately a bit empty.Action star Jason Statham is trying to make the transition to real acting. His short-comings are obvious here in the scenes with his wife. Still, he has definite charisma as an action guy and is at his best in the few high-octane, testosterone-fueled scenes. The weakness of the overall cast is best exemplified by the fact that Saffron Burrows ("Boston Legal") is the second lead in this. She is so awkward in front of the camera that everyone struggles playing off her. The rest of the gang is mediocre at best ... no real standouts.This one is not as much fun to watch as say "The Italian Job" because it lacks the action of the heist and the fun of planning. Here we get a few shots of some guys digging a tunnel. Most of the action occurs after the heist. The best part is realizing that less than 40 years ago, this job was pulled off by a gang of goofs in a major city like London.Go in with low expectations and you will find the film somewhat enjoyable.

One of the usually excellent Jason Stathams worst movies . The movie is so unbelievably corny it could almost pass as a comedy . There is however a you-have-to-see-it-to-believe-it bad acting performance by Saffron Burrows . Honestly you'll be watching a lot of this film through your fingers !

I liked the film to start with - bit cheeky, typical London "cops, robbers and gangsters" fare. Then after the heist was done, the tone darkened, uncomfortably so. If it had stayed lighter throughout, I'd have enjoyed it much more.All the actors were fine (I like the fact that you know what you're getting with Jason Statham - you don't *want* him to come across as 'actorly', you *want* him to play the lovable hard-man), the direction was slick, and the film was never boring. Worth a rental when it comes to DVD.One last comment: I know it says 'BASED on a true story', but I can't believe more than the bare bones are in any way factual.

I'm old enough to remember this robbery well, and the film does a great credit to a very true story, Jason Statham is Terry a very small time hood with a car lot (like Arthur Daly) who get lured into this bank Job by one time girl friend Martine (Safron Burrows-who l saw in Enigma) she is very beautiful, along with some mates they do the robbery, masterminded by Peter Bowels, a long way from his smooth Richard De Vere days in To The Manor Born, mind you he's still smoothie in this film, also along for the ride is David Suchet as a London Porn King, and Georgia Taylor one of the Battersby girls from Coronation Street. The film moves at a hell of a pace, and slowly builds to a great climax, l don't want to give away any of the plot all l can say is go and see this film, l admit l went to a pre-release night, but l might even go and see it again it's that good, l give it 9 out of 10

There is a good movie in this that was stolen from us, a darn good one I think. It dives into several well defined story areas: the heist film, the con film, the story that is drawn by sex (here in multiple ways). The business about multiple watchers in the noir mold manipulating the situation so it comes down to a battle of the watchers. Dueling photos and records. The cleverness of Brer Rabbit as he escapes once again, here played by someone we expect to have qualities we associate with that character.But what we get is bits and pieces of five or six probably successful movies. The sexual center around whom all the urges revolve is played by Saffron Burrows, who I think is capable of this. She's done something like this role before. But here she is directed into a shape of mystery that is not natural to her, and she comes off as just another of the women in the story, drifting.Like so many failed projects, you can watch this with the intent of wondering what you would adjust to make it work. I think I would defer the revealing of the multiple cons and doublecons until later, and have Saffron be simply as alluring as she can be. I would have made less of the Oceans 11 references, and more of the Guy Richie stuff.Two scores, battling for control. Simple stuff, but this could have been a winner.Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 3: You can find something better to do with this part of your life.

Okay, so heist movies are ten-a-penny at the moment, but that doesn't mean that a decent bank robbery flick that ticks all of the right boxes won't do the job. THE BANK JOB, a supposedly true '70s set story of scandal, corruption and one big score, proves that there's still life in the genre yet: this is a slick and efficient movie with style to spare.Tough-cookie-with-a-heart Jason Statham plays Terry Leather (what a name!), the owner of a small East End garage who assembles a team to tackle a bank robbery. Said robbery takes up much of the running time as we get involved with the meticulous planning and preparation, but of course you don't have to be a cinemaphile to know that there's going to be hell to pay afterwards.Things take a decidedly vicious turn with the involvement of a seedy strip club owner (David Suchet, playing against type and excellent with it), and from that point in it's every man for himself. Statham relishes the chance to do more than just hit people, even if he does just end up playing the same old tough-but-decent character he plays in every single movie.Saffron Burrows, looking exceptionally gorgeous, is a fine addition to the cast and indeed the acting is what this movie's all about. Stephen Campbell Moore and Daniel Mays also do well as gang members, and keep an eye out for Craig Fairbrass playing to type as a particularly nasty East End thug.The real stars, of course, are writing partners Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais, who have been doing this thing since the '60s and whose script is so witty, entertaining and well-rounded that it would have been impossible to get it wrong.

In 1971, the criminal Michael X (Peter De Jersey) blackmails the British government with compromising photos of members of the parliament practicing kinky sex with prostitutes. He keeps the photos in a safe deposit box in the Lloyds Bank in the Baker Street.The ambitious MI-5 Federal Agent Tim Everett (Richard Lintern) plots a bold plan to retrieve the pictures using a heist of the bank. He arrests the former model Martine Love (Saffron Burrows) in the airport trafficking drugs and offers security information to her to facilitate to rob of the bank. In return, he requests the content of the safe box no. 118 that belongs to Michael X.Martine goes to East London and meets her former lover, the car dealer Terry Leather (Jason Statham) that is married with two daughters but owes money to a dangerous loan shark, and tells him that the bank's alarm will be deactivated during a few days. Terry summons his friends and the team of amateurs succeeds in the heist. However, together with the money, the gang also steels the photos of Michael X; the book with the transactions with dirty cops of the Scotland Yard of the pornographer Lew Vogel (David Suchet); and photos of politicians in the Sonia Bern's brothel. Now different groups organize a manhunt to Terry and his friends with different objectives, where the stolen money is the less important."The Bank Job" was the great surprise of this week, with a good story based on true events. I bought this Blu Ray a long time ago but my expectations were very low. However this film is one of the best movies of bank heist that I have ever seen. In the end, the thieves are the most charismatic characters among such corruptors and unethical people. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Efeito Dominó" ("Domino Effect")

I might have heard the title somewhere recently, and I may have heard about the lead actor, and it was pretty obvious from the title what the plot would involve, so I watched, from director Roger Donaldson (Dante's Peak, The World's Fastest Indian). Based on a true story, London car dealer and artful dodger Terry Leather (Jason Statham) is having slow business so former model who has a thing for him Martine Love (Deep Blue Sea's Saffron Burrows) makes him an offer. There is a bank on Baker Street that will have its alarms turned off for a couple of weeks, and the plan is to tunnel underneath two buildings opposite to get into the vault and take what's inside. So a team is assembled to carry out the plan, including photographer Kevin Swain (Stephen Campbell Moore), occasional pornographic actor Dave Shilling (Plus One's Daniel Mays), posh conman 'Major' Guy Singer (Bridget Jones's James Faulkner) and mechanic Bambas (Alki David). Inside Guy's gentlemen's clothes shop two doors away the tunnelling begins, obviously there are complaints about the noise from the neighbours due to the loud underground drilling. There is a point while doing this however that the floor caves in while in the tunnel, and that is when they find an underground site full of skeletons, and this makes for an easier passage to the branch of Lloyds. They manage to tunnel into the bank vault while one of them keeps an eye on the street above for any police, and they find many safe deposit boxes full of jewels and cash, as well as one with incriminating photos of a royal having sex with various men. There is a point when it looks like they will be caught in the act by police, as they are using walkie talkies that are being listened to, but they manage to get away with it, and that is when they find out the truth about the robbery. Martine made them rob the bank so that they would bring out the safe deposit box with the photos, that a Trinadadian thug, a high-end bordello owner and pornographer are involved with, to trade for avoiding a prison sentence. Guy and Bambas escaped with their share of the bank vault loot, but they are murdered by unknown persons, and the most threatening person wanting the photos seems to be Soho gangster Lew Vogel (Poirot's David Suchet), who kills Dave and kidnaps friend Eddie Burton (Michael Jibson). In the end Vogel and his criminal cohorts are arrested, Martine says goodbye and the gang members go their separate ways, and Terry is seen with his wife and kids living carefree on a yacht in paradise, the end text says that parts of the robbery investigation still haven't been concluded. Also starring Keeley Hawes as Wendy Leather, Craig Fairbrass as Nick Barton, Colin Salmon as Hakim Jamal, Peter Bowles as Miles Urquart, Peter De Jersey as Michael X, Georgia Taylor as Ingrid Burton, Richard Lintern as Tim Everett, Hattie Morahan as Gale Benson, Rupert Frazer as Lord Drysdale, Gerard Horan as Detective Sergeant Roy Given and Sharon Maughan as Sonia Bern. Statham is less thuggish than usual which makes a difference, the supporting actors get their time too, especially Suchet who is quite sinister in moments, it is an easy to follow story, and if you like caper film then this is reasonable entertainment, alright heist thriller based on a true story. Worth watching!