I've been watching horror movies for a long time, and I always consider myself to be some what desensitized. When I saw this film when it was released in 2002, I was terrified. Whereas other scary movies I had seen before it tended to be predictable, this one wasn't. Certain images were unexpected and shocking to me. The plot is well-placed and the setting dark and dreary. Such natural things in the world are given new meaning within the film's context.Watching it again 18 years later, I know what to expect, but it still gives me shivers. This is a solid horror/suspense film and I appreciate it in light of the tendency towards gore which followed.

If you watch the video and then the phone rings, you've got a week to wait, to find out what it will bring, or rather what it will take away, as it's quite a significant price you have to pay, just for pressing play, to see Samara spring.Still a great piece of horror film making.

The Ring usually gets a bad rep for being "too slow" and some people even say that "nothing happens" in the movie. Unless you have ADD or something, you have to at least appreciate what Gore Verbinski achieved in 2002. What he did was he basically took the premise of Ringu, a good suspenseful Japanese horror flick and made it more suspenseful and filled with creepy visuals.I am a huge horror fan, and this is one of the movies that unsettles me the most. The suspenseful pace, the incredible, beautiful but haunting visuals make this a unique experience. I love gory films, but this one relies a lot more on psychological horror and imagery to create scares. No jump scares, just good story telling.The movie may not answer all the questions it creates, but the viewer, if he pays attention accordingly, will be able to figure them out for himself. Unsettling to the bone, The Ring is one of my favorite horror films of all time. Truly underrated.

This movie makes you realize why so many other movies fail to be scary...not enough psychological elements. What this movie does right is that it skips the gore, and blood, and over-the-top overacting crazed lunatics that seem the norm in horror movies.I saw this with a friend in the theater and 10 minutes in we were sinking into our chairs with fear. Not even the annoying teens making their phones ring to scare their friends (when you see the movie you will understand why) were a powerful enough distraction to undo the terror we felt.Definitely see it, make sure you have as big a TV as you can get your hands on when you rent it, and that you watch it at night in the dark...if you want the full effect. Also, make sure you rent it on DVD and NOT cassette...you know, just to be safe ;)

Before I saw The Ring, I used to think of horror movies as something about a supernatural (sometimes not supernatural) force that gobbles up people in bizarre series of deaths usually accompanied by blood and gore. Maybe I ought to blame it on my own selection of movies. But I realized that horror movies can have a deep and a decent story line after seeing The Ring.The Ring is an adaptation of the Japanese movie Ringu. Ringu is a well respected horror movie. Rather than call The Ring as an adaptation I would prefer calling it as an improvisation of Ringu. For I have seen both movies and in my personal opinion the producers of The Ring have made the story a bit deeper and of course with the music and special effects scarier.A particular thing worth mentioning is the work done by the child actor David Dorfman (playing the role of Aidan). My personal opinion is that he has done a very good job. And Ehren Kruger, in his script for the movie has given a major role to Aidan as opposed to lesser important role given to Aidan's Japanese counterpart.Full credit to the Ring's makers for a very fine adaptation of the original Ringu. And yes, a small word of advice for those who have not seen the real Daveigh Chase (playing Samara). After seeing this movie, do look up on the net for a picture of hers and make the comparison! And do try and watch Ringu as well. A very respectable movie indeed.A good story, nice scares, decent acting and smooth direction! Enjoy the movie!

"The Ring" is metaphorical and philosophical, scenically perfect, engaging thriller with horror elements. It's scary when you watch it, and even more scary when you understand it.
Naomi Watts is crazily good in her leading role.

The Ring is a supernatural horror movie directed by Gore Verbinski and stars Naomi Watts, Martin Henderson, David Dorfman and Brian Cox.The movie is very creepy, disturbing for some viewers, dark and haunting. The plot is based on the Japanese movie named ring which is based on a Japanese novel by the same name.Acting is good and screenplay is scary and gripping. The movie doesn't looses it's plot. The climax is good and unpredictable.Without sharing much details in the review, I must say that this movie is a must watch.