The Crazies (1:41, R) — Borderline, 3rd string, remakePretty sad that this retread is the best SF&F film of 2010 so far, tho still not one that I'd really recommend. Here Timothy Olyphant, in a big-screen stopover on his way between portraying a sheriff in HBO's Deadwood and a sheriff in FX's Justified, is cast against type as  a sheriff.The film wastes no time getting right into the meat of the story, as the opening scene shows a town in flames, littered with wrecked vehicles. We cut quickly to "2 days earlier", opening day of baseball season in the little town of Ogden Marsh, Iowa (pop. 1260), as Rory Hamill, the town drunk — expressionless, disheveled, wearing grimy overalls — walks onto the field with a shotgun. The players scatter, and Pierce County Sheriff David Dutton (who apparently knows everyone in town on a 1st-name basis) walks out to calm Rory down and persuade him to put down the gun. It doesn't end well.Over the ensuing day or so, a number of other town residents start exhibiting strange behavior: subdued, listless, forgetful. Some of them show up in the office of the town doc, Judy Dutton (Radha Mitchell), the sheriff's pregnant wife. But she can't find anything wrong with them beyond a slightly elevated temperature, and they agree. "{My wife} worries too much. I'm fine. Just a little tired.", says one man. Then, moments later, he says it again. He'll be the next one to wig out.Intercut among the scenes of tranquil rural life are quick shots from satellite recon cameras and, later, from inside a mysterious black SUV with tinted windows. This gives us reason to think that there's more going on than, say, H2N2. This is confirmed about the time the sheriff does a little detective work to discover that the craziness is probably due to contaminated water flowing downstream from the village's eponymous marsh, and the overhead view gets an ominous new caption: "Initiate containment procedures".From there on, it's the sheriff, his wife, his chief deputy (Joe Anderson as the decidedly non- Barney-Fife-like, competent, reliable Russell Clank), and teenage candy-striper Becca Darling (Danielle Panabaker) against the crazies themselves, vengeful relatives, panicky townspeople, well armed rednecks, and hordes of gas-masked soldiers who themselves aren't quite sure what they've been ordered to do but aren't about to take any lip from civilians, badge or no.Things go to hell pretty realistically, there aren't any unbelievable heroics or faky jumpatchas, and there's a serious effort made to field a plausible scientific explanation for everything. Indeed, that very plausibility prompts me to classify this film as borderline, rather than pure SF, since it's something that arguably could happen in real life.Does it all turn out OK in the end? That would be telling, wouldn't it?George A. Romero executive produced this remake of his 1973 film of the same name, which was set in Pennsylvania. (You may recognize him as the man behind the original 1968 Night of the Living Dead and its many remakes and sequels. Apparently he's a guy who believes in milking the cow until she implodes.) I never saw the original, so I can't say whether it meets my standard test for whether a remake is justified, namely that the original idea was poorly executed but worthy of being done right.The 2010 edition, considered all by itself, is reasonably good but by no means a must-see.

Even outside the fact that The Crazies is actually a remake of a 1973 George A. Romero film, I have a feeling most audiences still have the "infection" flicks of the past decade still fresh on their minds. Over the past ten years, we've endured quite a few and several have even packed quite a bit of wallop (28 Days Later, Planet Terror, etc.). While I feel Breck Eisner's 2010 redux of The Crazies isn't anything new in this regard, I still found myself entertained over the course of the 100 minute runtime.This may have something to do with the fact that I grew up in a small town in southern America not too unlike the isolated Iowa setting of the film and I can recognize the small town obsession and paranoia of larger political/governmental interests heaving themselves on the livelihood of small town folk and invading their way of living. That idea has been exaggerated in a worst-possible-scenario with The Crazies. The remoteness of the society works to the advantage of the film quite well. Perhaps even too well as some audience members may wonder where the rest of the world is when all of this is happening. The American media of all shapes and forms would have had a field day reporting over anything vaguely resembling this mess.The direction is impressive with much attention to detail taken from behind the camera. It's especially comforting that the director didn't depend solely on violence. Eisner even cuts away from some of the more graphic "impact" moments, coincidentally making more of a psychological impact on the audience.The film moves with brisk pace as our heroes struggle to survive the unthinkable. Eisner, like Romero, is astute at making Hazmat suits and the traditional gas mask into terrifying images. The very presence of such an image confronting you effectively sends a feeling of utter helplessness into the audience—as if you are caught in the middle of something far beyond your control. Our central characters seem vulnerable and "exposed" at every turn as a result while scary military men in full bio-garb follow close at their heels.There are some issues that prevented me from loving the film, though. The script could have used a little work as plot holes were easily noticeable and characters were either very thinly developed or, at times, made ridiculous decisions. Like another recent "zombie" film, Zombieland, occasional over-the-top actions of some of the characters seemed out of place. There is very little, to no, character development in the film and most of the roles are simply caricatures we've seen in countless other movies. Thankfully Timothy Olyphant (whom has been on my radar since Deadwood), Radha Mitchell (who's becoming somewhat of a scream queen, isn't she?), and a surprising performance from Joe Anderson add credibility to such events.Many twists and turns the film takes aren't very surprising, but The Crazies manages to keeps atmosphere flowing throughout most of the films scenes. While protagonists investigating barns and being captured by increasingly menacing foes becomes rather monotonous towards the films conclusion, the film just manages to get away while not overstaying it's welcome.Eisner is apparently in the mood for more of this horror remake mayhem since he's already in discussions to potentially direct remakes of The Brood and Creature from the Black Lagoon. As for The Crazies, this venture does its original quite a bit more justice than many of the others we've received as of late. For a visually pleasing and entertaining horror movie, The Crazies neither drives audiences ballistic nor restores their sanity.Related Recommendations: 28 Days/Weeks Later, Children of the Corn, rec, Quarantine, Planet Terror, Dawn of the Dead, Carriers, The Stand, The Crazies (1973)

"The Crazies" is not scary."Horror" has come to mean something very specific to Hollywood, and perhaps more than any other genre, is withering from a lack of creativity. The horror film should unnerve, disorient, and startle—qualities that evaporate when imitated. The formulaic scare tactics of "The Crazies" and its contemporaries are so well established that their effect on audiences now is negligible. It's compounded by the remake phenomenon, and though you can put a fresh coat of paint on a forty-year-old film, can you really expect it to frighten anybody?I suspect fans of the genre aren't even showing up to be scared anymore. How can they be? They know the rules. What passes for great horror today is really 'horrortainment:' competent atmosphere and innovative gore slapped on an obvious template. And such has been the reaction to "The Crazies," which has a relatively high 72% Rotten Tomatoes metascore, based on 130 reviews. The consensus is that the film is "uncommonly intelligent," without reference to the embarrassingly low mean intellect of 21st century horror.And "The Crazies" does have competent atmosphere, though it's merely that. Following a promising start, the film still suffers from the stilted predictability that plagues the genre at its worst, and it shouldn't be praised for performing above a very low average, especially when nothing interesting happens after the first twenty minutes.There's a gravity to act one, before the meddlesome government steps in and f***s up the film, with attention paid to the fact that the Crazies are our (suddenly creatively homicidal) friends and neighbors. There's your movie: what does it mean to be brutally attacked by the people you love? Why don't we leave it at that and do away with this trite big brother/quarantine shtick? All it nets us is regurgitated social commentary, a half-hearted compound escape sequence, and a film that's approximately 30% walking.And the walking dissolves into more walking, which is intermittently punctuated with exactly the sort of scenes you would expect in a post-apocalyptic zombie flick. Where do we go? Is one of our party members infected? Why don't you wait in this dimly-lit diner alone while I go do something important?An occasional effective jump scare, menacing visual, and suspenseful moment aren't enough to make up for a wholly second-rate script. It all goes back to that first sentence. "The Crazies" is not scary. And it's not scary just because it doesn't surprise us, but also because it exists in a world without consequence. Early in the film, a son and his mother stow away in a coat closet to hide from her infected husband. When dad finds them, he doesn't yank them out—He locks them in and sets the house on fire.Okay, you got me—Now what? We cut out of the scene and never see any of the characters again. What? If you really want to horrify me, stick me in that closet with the burning family. Let me feel the smoke inhalation and smell the singed flesh.Like comedy and laughter, if a horror film finds a way to frighten this jaded moviegoer, I'm more than willing to overlook its flaws elsewhere. But the last thing I should ever feel is comfortable—No, scratch that. The last thing I should ever feel is bored, and "The Crazies" is a boring film. It's objectively a step above "Legion" or "The Wolfman," but I suppose that's what passes for praise in the current horror climate.

I didn't know diddly squat about this movie before I saw it, and that's how I recommend you see it also. The back of the DVD case sorta spoils some of the fun, so avoid reading it if you can. All I'll say about the plot is pretty evident from the title and cover picture (a blood drenched pitchfork). This is a movie where chances are you're gonna see someone get it with a pitchfork.The overall story and theme reminded me of the classic thrillers of the 70s, so it came as no huge surprise when I learned that this was a remake of a 70s George Romero flick. By comparing it to 70s thrillers I mean to say it's the story of a lone protagonist or small group fighting against a grossly overpowering enemy. This sort of "hopeless underdog" theme was probably a result of the political climate of the 70s, when people were waking up and realizing that our beloved guv'meant and friendly corporations were sucking us dry like a 2 hour old wad of Bazooka Joe bubble gum. So this distrustful awakening spawned excellent conspiracy flicks like "Coma", "The China Syndrome", "The Andromeda Strain" and "The Stepford Wives" which flew in the face of the traditional tale of a superhero good guy vs. a clear and present danger, instead showing a more disturbing scenario of a protagonist at the mercy of a far more insidious and often faceless enemy.What, you're saying? Then who's the dude with the pitchfork? Well broadly speaking, again as you might guess from the title, the enemy is an entire town gone crazy. That's what makes this hit home. With the enemy being our neighbors and friends, it's not like we're threatened by a fantasy 2-headed space beast. Instead the threat is something that exists around all of us. As the actors mention in the "behind the scenes" DVD feature, this is the terror of something safe & familiar which is turned upside down.In that respect it reminded me of another excellent thriller, "The Strangers" about an ordinary couple terrorized by ordinary people in very un-ordinary ways. Again, no supernatural monsters or (as my title says) no "zombies" are required to instill perfect fear. This is the sort of movie that'll leave you thinking "wow, that really COULD happen." That's the mark of a truly terrifying story.The acting is fantastic, and although I had never seen any of these people on screen before, I instantly liked every one because they seemed so real and personable. My favorite character was "Russell" who plays a harmless sheriff's deputy, but as the film gets darker, he too becomes more fidgety and cynical to the point where you're not sure what's going on in his head.Special effects are really good. No obvious cgi garbage. Yes, the film crew really did roll a few trucks and trash a few streets to make the carnage authentic. Makeup also is really convincing, so much that it's more disturbing than the actual gore (which surprisingly there isn't a whole lot of; most of the violence is handled quickly from creative angles that pump up your imagination).Entertainment value: 10/10. This flick hits you from the very first scene and keeps the suspense rolling through the whole thing. The scares are well placed. Things remain tense without the need for unnecessary kitschy horror clichés... although there's at least one scene where the movie isn't afraid to make fun of itself a little. I'm talking about the over- the-top bone saw scene which was as much comedy as it was horror. Lots of reasons to see this movie so go out and rent it already. You'll never see your neighbors, or pitchforks, the same way again.

This remake takes the plot line of classic horror story and elevates it above the norm for the genre with the use of tight pacing, good acting and great cinematography.This is a tried-and-true formula movie of friends and neighbors strangely turning into murderous "zombies" due to some unknown infection and how our heroes survive despite all odds. The original was made in 1973 and, true to the era, casts the government as the bad guys - having created this infection as a biological weapon. The original movie split the point-of-view between the townspeople and the government agents so the plot was more apparent from both sides. The remake keeps the same antagonist but does not try to reveal the government's plans or voice the government's justification for the actions undertaken. The result is that the heroes and the audience are kept in the dark for a longer period and the tensions are increased accordingly.One point of differentiation between this movie and other "zombie" movies is that the creatures do not seek to eat the flesh of the humans (thereby reducing the gore factor but there is still plenty of scene that are unsettling) and retain a sense of their actions (allowing them to seek revenge and work in teams). Yes, teams of zombies working together. Scary.While I generally do not like horror movies, I would almost classify this more as a thriller with some sic-fi and horror elements. And the elements work quite well together.For my other movie reviews, please visit:https://nomorewastedmovienights.wordpress.com

Don't get me wrong I love the zombie/infection genre and there's nothing I love more than blood, guts, and...well, more blood and guts but this movie just fell short for me. It seems like every zombie/infection movie story has been expired for the past few years, Zombieland being an exception...kinda.The Crazies starts off, well, crazy and ends crazies, which that's probably why it's call that in the first place. This movie display a rather generic story. Everything is normal, stuff hits the fan, military comes, military loses control, main characters make a journey to a better place, and bomb hits infected town. I'm not saying I hate this clone of a story mainly because they aren't really "zombies" but the same diagram applies.This movie was bad and it wasn't good. It was slightly above average and that's not too shabby in my book to begin with so. They didn't try anything original but one of the aspects was a tad different which ain't to shabby either. Originality is really what made this movie not as good for me.Rating: 7/10 Final Words: If you like zombie/infection movies then go and rent it. If you don't watch movies that aren't a 8 or more in rating then this movie might not be for you.

It is clear that the current cycle of horror remakes is far from over and the results so far have for the most part been surprisingly good. This trend continues with 'The Crazies'- a reinvention of George Romero's little-seen 1973 original. The plot is beyond simple: a biological agent gets into the water supply of a small town in Iowa called Ogden Marsh and turns the inhabitants into homicidal maniacs. Things get even worse when a US Army unit initiates a brutal containment operation where shooting first and not bothering to ask questions is the order of the day.The film wastes little time building up to the first outbreak of insanity and then chillingly portrays how the town's social fabric is obliterated at break-neck speed. There is an abundance of scary moments, inventive gore, and even some very black humor. Some moments are so intensely suspenseful that time seems to practically stand still. All the cast play their parts well; including Timothy Olyphant as the town sheriff, Joe Anderson as his deputy, and Radha Mitchell as the town doctor. The minimalist soundtrack is also strikingly effective. All in all, this film is a treat for horror fans and for anyone looking for an intense night out at the movies.

Why wear a seatbelt? Every movie I've ever seen has people in horrid accidents just walking away.Anyway. This is not a zombie movie. Well, not per se. I will say that I have watched horror movies since I was young and they never scared me (or few did). In the last decade or so I haven't lost any sleep over a scary movie... I think I might lose some now. I kind of had an idea where this movie was going, but there were enough completely random deaths to keep me worried. At points I actually felt nervous. If you are a fan of the genre, or just want a good scare, go ahead, pop some popcorn, and lock your doors and hide from your neighbors.