Okay, I admit it! I'm a big fan of SpongeBob SquarePants TV-series. And when the movie came out, I was more than suspicious. Most movies that have been made out of TV-series have been big disappointments. But I can assure you, this one is not.If you have ever seen an episode of SpongeBob and liked it, you'll most probably enjoy this film. Even though the movie is mainly directed to kids, as is the TV-series, it will definitely keep adults interested just as well.Something I especially love in this movie are the characters. In their own way, they're all fun and original. The voice actors do a brilliant job in bringing the characters of Bikini Bottom to life. All the voices fit perfectly and make the movie even funnier! Watching SpongeBob SquarePants the Movie is like watching a long episode of the TV show. And I believe that's just the way we like it! I was scared they were going to make some kind of weird changes to make it more appealing to a wider audience, but I'm glad they kept the spirit of the show.If you have doubts about whether to see this movie, take my advice; go see it, now!

Fans of SpongeBob and its special humor will certainly enjoy this movie, although it's not as good as the television show. But at least the story is bigger and more adventurous than an average SpongeBob episode.The movie, the story and its humor mostly relies on its randomness. The randomness works good and fun in the television series but its not quite good enough to fill an entire movie with, even though the movie is only 90 minutes short. It falls flat, especially toward the ending, that is disappointingly simple and ridicules. No big finale, just a simple conclusion.Many new but also many pointless characters are introduced. King Neptune has become a different character from the show and is this time voiced by Jeffrey Tambor. The Mindy character (Scarlett Johansson) is a pointless one. She could had worked in the movie and its story if she perhaps had been someone's love interest (Patrick's). Probably the only good new character is the assassin Dennis (Alec Baldwin). He is a cool and dangerous character.Luckily the fun main characters are also present. SpongeBob and Patrick form a great stupid comical duo and Mr. Krabs and Squidward are also present but unfortunately a bit underused in the movie, especially Squidward, who always is such a fun, grumpy and dry character to watch in the television show.You would normally expect from a featured animated movie to be better and more detailed than its television show. There however is hardly any difference notable in terms of style and quality of the animations. Only thing that looks better is the life action. But of course when you have David "The Hoff" Hasselhoff as a character, you can't get any better life action, except when you have Chuck Norris maybe. Not sure if the pirates were completely necessary, they made a pointless and unfunny impression on me.This movie will probably divide the fans of the television show into two groups. One group will love this movie for its fun, simple adventurous movie and others will find it disappointing that the typical SpongeBob humor doesn't work out quite as well as in the television show. I personally am somewhere in the middle. I enjoyed watching the movie but also have to admit that watching the television show is more fun and overall better to watch.7/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/

SpongeBob finally made it to the big screen and the good thing is - it is nothing less of the TV series, just longer and more fun. Staring SpongeBob and Patrick in search of stolen crown of King Neptune, before he turns Mr. Crab into fried crab.If you're a fan of the TV series this will not disappoint you at all, and if you're not a fan you will become one. Surprisingly, the movie able to bring all the characteristic and style of the show on to the big screen without trying too hard. It is still the same old SpongeBob, and that what I like about this movie.The story is consistence and the humor is still fun to watch, there is always something new coming up making it unpredictable. And the original song is brilliantly written and somewhat quite inspiring. SpongeBob still make it big despite being a 2D cartoon cause the animation here is colorfully done.Overall: I enjoy the whole film, but maybe a little downside on the David Hasselhoff parts. But overall it is an extremely enjoyable film.Reason To Watch: Finally Able To See SpongeBob In Full Length Movie. Triple The Fun.Reason Not To: Dislike Real People Acting With Cartoon.Rating: 7/10 (Grade: B-).Please Rate (Y/N) After Reading, Thank You.

I can not recommend this movie enough. I may be exaggerating, but I love this movie too much. It's so aware of what it is and very enjoyable even having a good message. I recommend this to anyone even if your not a fan of the show.

(r#78)I never watched the SpongeBob TV show and only saw this movie because my little brother and his friend needed someone to look after them in the cinema. I didn't have high hopes but decided to give it a chance - after all, I loved "Rocko's Modern Life" as a kid, so how bad could it be? Anyway, I was skeptic, but this movie blew me away. This isn't just one of those "pretty good for a kids' flick" deals, this is a good movie, period.The characters are hilarious and the sight gags are great; the scene in which SpongeBob and his idiot friend Patrick drink one or two ice creams too many is positively hilarious, as well as some other sequences. The humour is typical over-the-top kiddie stuff but I liked it anyway, which is rare. There is also a great deal of surreal humour thrown in, which is unusual and refreshing for this type of flick. If there's anything a movie shouldn't be, it's banal and uninteresting, and SpongeBob is neither - you'll either embrace the over-the-top quality of the film, or hate it utterly. I liked it a lot, and so did my brother. If you can swallow your pretensions, you will find yourself having a good time with this one. Definitely worth seeing.Oddly enough, while most people complain that this movie wasn't as good as the show it's based on, I've watched a few episodes of SpongeBob and I could barely make it through them. The movie is far more enjoyable, in my opinion. However you feel about that, this is a great surreal kids' film in the vein of Alice in Wonderland, although a lot brighter, more colourful, and with a slew of Stephen Hillenburg's demented humour thrown in. If liking this movie makes me stupid, childish, or a dork - then so be it! Great stuff.

I didn't quite know what to expect when I walked into the theater to watch the movie of one of my favorite cartoons. Nickelodeon has a really nasty habit of "big-budgtizing" movies of their shows (changing the look, etc.). However this is not the case with SpongeBob. Whew, one less thing to worry about.Next was the story. Could Steve Hillenburg live up to what had been laid down by the series? Yes. Basically it's like watching a 1 1/2 hour episode of SpongeBob (and who couldn't like that). Lot's of visual gags and typical Sponge brainless-ness. I was quite impressed.If you're a SpongeBob fan, you'll love this movie. If you're not, eh, watch it anyways, it'll do you good ;-).

SpongeBob lives in Bikini Bottom with his pet Gary, best friend Patrick the starfish and Squidward. He expects that Mr. Krabs will make him the manager of Krusty Krab 2 but he chooses Squidward instead. Plankton is angry at the new restaurant opening. He uses plan Z to steal King Neptune's crown and frame Mr. Krabs for it. SpongeBob defends Mr. Krabs. Convinced by his daughter Mindy, King Neptune gives SpongeBob and Patrick 6 days to find his crown in dangerous Shell City.This is basically an extended version of the TV show. It's as silly and irreverent as ever. Its stupidity is its charm. It's fun but it does run a bit long. It may be that SpongeBob is best as 30 minutes episodes. If you're a fan of the show, this is just as good except longer.

Take the funniest things about Spongebob Squarepants (wacky-anarchist environment and extremely funny animated drawings) and make it an hour-and-a-half long. It's non-stop laughs and plenty of color and all-out craziness. Spongebob and Patrick go off-model so much that it's an eyegasmic delight for the cartoon maniacs out there.Sooo many entertaining moments. It's literally a laugh-a-minute film... lots of stuff that flies right over the kiddies' heads.The one thing I didn't like about the movie - the character Mindy (King Neptunes princess daughter). She didn't fit in well with the rest of the character designs - she looks more like a character you would've seen on the Daria animated series.Also keep an eye out for the big sea creatures' wrestlin' scene with the evil diver... such smooth and precise animation of so many characters at once that I just sat there in pure awe.

This is a movie about an animated sponge that wears square cardboard pants. So there you go, you can't go to the movie and claim you didn't know what kind of humor to expect. It's goofy, it's silly, and it can be downright strange. But I can't call those negative attributes considering the fact that all of the above can also be used to describe me at times.I've never seen the SpongeBob TV show, so I went into the movie without much of an idea of what I was in for. I must say that while I won't rush out and buy the DVD, I walked away fairly entertained. Expectedly, a lot of the humor is directed towards children, but there's enough here to keep the adults snickering. I may be nearing 30, but I'm not ashamed to laugh at a sponge wearing square whitey tighties! Oh, and for those of us who never cease to mock David Hasselhoff - he has a cameo. I've gotta give the guy credit - he's very aware that the entire country is laughing *at* him, yet he's completely willing to join in.The children at the screening loved the movie, singing along to songs and everything. One of the funniest things was when Patrick the starfish first appeared on screen and the kids erupted in applause. It was like watching an episode of Seinfeld when Kramer makes his first appearance of an episode and the studio audience goes crazy. I briefly thought about booing just for the fun of it, but the thought of a bunch of tiny little hands pattering me upon my face didn't sound too fun.But let's go back to the whole "singing along to songs" bit. I think it's only fair to warn parents that this may start to drive you crazy after the movie. Good luck trying to keep your kid from singing, "I'm ready, promotion! I'm ready, promotion!" or "I'm a goofy goober, you're a goofy goober, we're all goofy goobers" over and over and over again. I had to bribe my 9-year-old brother with cold hard cash to knock it off with the "I'm ready, promotion!" song.Speaking of my brother, I asked him after the movie which he preferred -SpongeBob or The Polar Express. To my surprise, he said SpongeBob because it was "funnier." I suppose this is a lesson that children aren't quite as impressed with fancy animation as adults are.But he's right, SpongeBob is a funny movie in it's own quirky, original way. I'm not dying to see it again, and I don't think I'll be glued to the TV set every time it's on, but I enjoyed it, and I'm not gonna waste my time or yours by picking apart what I didn't like. The target audience should be pleased with the end result, so mission accomplished.THE GISTIf you're a fan of the TV show, then you should definitely get a kick out of The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie. This movie isn't exactly for everybody though. If you've never heard of SpongeBob, then there's quite a bit here that may humor you. But if you hate all things silly, goofy, and immature, then this isn't for you.

This movie is definitely made for preschoolers. Don't expect to find any kind of adult humor in here like in The Incredibles or Shrek. And that's okay with me! I'm a fan of the show, and the movie is mainly fun because Spongebob is so HUGE. Many shots are featured close-ups of his and his friend Patrick's hilarious faces. The sound is great, the songs immature, and the colors so bright that I can imagine a little kid would be enthralled for the whole 80 minutes of running time. There weren't many kids in our theater when we saw this, but the couple that were giggled like crazy! It mainly feels like an extended episode of the show, and that is just what I would say to expect. If you're not a fan of the show, you're NOT going to enjoy this movie.

I've been looking through other people's comments for this movie and almost everyone one of their reviews said, "If you're a fan of the show, then you'll love the movie!". So I've come to the conclusion that I must have seen a totally different movie then everyone else, because the Spongebob movie that I saw was boring, unoriginal, and lacked a lot of the humor which makes the show so great. If you're fans of the old Spongebob that gave us such classic episodes like the "KK Training Video" like I am, then I'm sorry to say you will be disappointed. This movie is like all of the new episodes of Spongebob, babyish and moronic. Not the funny kind of moronic, the mind-numbing stupid kind of moronic. The kind where Spongebob acts like a three year old and breaks down and cries every five minutes or so. I understand that the movie was aimed at kids, I was 13 when I saw it, but come on. The dialog in this movie is shameful and clearly does not represent the humor behind the show. I must have laughed one or two times throughout the entire movie. It seems as if though it lacked the charm that the show had the first two seasons. Overall very disappointing and if you are a true fan of Spongebob then you should be able to see it as well.