I desperately wish that the Farelly brothers would go back to doing gross-out comedies like they did with Dumb and Dumber, Kingpin, Me, Myself, and Irene, and this. This is by far the best of all their movies. There are three kinds of comedy. Comedies that make you smile (Sixteen Candles), comedies that make you laugh (Airplane), and comedies that cause you to nearly asphyxiate yourself from laughing so hard. This is one of those rare third category movies. With the friends I watched it with, the laughs sounded like nuclear bombs going off in my room. It's that funny.Thirteen years ago, Ted (Ben Stiller) landed a prom date with the most popular and beautiful girl in school, Mary (Cameron Diaz). Unfortunately, the date wasn't meant to be, for Ted has his manhood damaged right in front of Mary, and ends up in the hospital instead of the prom.Thirteen years later, Ted decides to track Mary down, and have a second chance with his dream girl. He hires sleazy private eye, Pat (Matt Dillon)to find her for him. Pat finds her, and she's grown up beautiful. Pat decides he wants to date her. He stalks her, finds out everything she wants in a man, and poses as just that. Meanwhile, Ted has been led to believe that Mary has become fat white trash in a wheelchair. Pat and Mary start dating.Well, by the end of the movie, every man who is involved in the story has tried to make a move on Mary. We all know how it ends, but it's one funny ride. One thing about this movie that's commendable is how the mentally retarded character is treated. He is treated in a way that isn't rude, or offensive. Mary sticks up for him, and he's really innocent. The funniest gag in the movie involves a NEW brand of HAIR GEL (compliments of Ted, and tested by Mary). I won't tell you what's really being mistaken for hair gel, but when you find out, you'll laugh so hard, you gag. This movie knows what a comedy of this type should be like. Each gag goes somewhere, and is really big. They're usually extended scenes with punchlines. Me, Myself, and Irene goes for the cheapest laughs you can find, but There's Something About Mary takes it's time, carefully planning each gag, in order to make it gut-bustingly hilarious. That's just what this movie is. 10/10.It is rated R for Strong Comic Sexual Content, and Language. Sex: 8/10 Violence: 3/10 Swearing: 9/10 Drugs: 2/10

A lot of my friends said they hated this, but after i saw it and loved what I saw, it became apparent that many of these people hadn't seen it, they just KNEW they would hate it from the degradingly mysoginistic slapstick it supposedly represented.  Sorry, wrong movie.  This is a classic satire, replete with balladeer narrator.  The gags flow fast and funny and expertly walk the tightrope between politically incorrect and unkind.  This is surprisingly a movie that is very true to itself and its characters with a lot of plotlines that tie up nicely in unusual ways.  And, it's a feel-good movie too.  Cameron Diaz and Ben Stiller are marvelous together in the leads.

Insanely off the wall comedy from the Farrelly Brothers that delivers from start to finish. Wonderful early sequence with Keith David as Diaz's father busting heavily braced Stiller's chops. Stiller's zipper scene goes down as one of the funniest and most painful things I have ever witnessed on film. Diaz is divine the woman of Stiller's dreams...Dillon is hired to find Diaz...He falls in love with her and gives Stiller a bum story... Lee Evans, a pizza boy, is in love with her too... then Brett Favre comes into the picture.  Every scene has something memorable from Dillon's attempts at reviving a dog to Stiller's "pre date entertainment." A classic that doesn't take itself too seriously.

There's Something About Mary (1998)A goofy, mixed bag of a film, but with a few gut-ripping hilarious scenes that you can't miss. You have to like silly stuff. You have to put up with some padding here and there (I don't recommend the longer version unless you are already love the movie). And you have to turn a blind eye to political correctness (it has none, though not like Borat, which feeds off it, more just incidentally).Ben Stiller is great in his own way, lovable and dull at the same time, which is the idea. The other supporting male actors are comic regulars, and not my favorites, but they do what this kind of movie needs them to do. Even Bret Favre is as stiff on camera and as beefy as a quarterback is supposed to be.But there is, naturally, something about Cameron Diaz, that clicks with audiences--her cute, perky charm, most of all. That fact that all these guys like her for her looks is not the most enlightened approach to love, is it? But then, this isn't a high brow movie, or one with scruples in particular. It's a pretty clumsy movie, in many ways, just a series of gags that sometimes are just too funny for words. "Sometimes" being more often than a lot of other comedies.

Did you ever see those annoying pop-up online ads about looking up old high-school friends? Did you ever stop to think that this movie is probably responsible? Really, there could be no other impetus for people to want to revisit the horrors of young adulthood then this sterling advertisement for reaching back and reclaiming the best of your past.Ben Stiller is a sad-eyed magazine writer named Ted who never got over the girl of his high school dreams, Mary, who vanished from his life after a single date in which getting horizontal meant being carted away in an ambulance. Ted has seedy detective Pat Healy (Matt Dillon) investigate a lead in Miami. Healy finds her and reports back that she's a walrus in a wheelchair. Ted thinks maybe he should check up on her anyway, to see if he can be helpful to her, but Healy explains she's now en route to Japan as a mail-order bride.Ted: What are they, desperate! She's a whale.Healy: It's a sumo culture. They pay by the pound.Actually, Healy is not being entirely truthful. Mary is single, ambulatory, and quite the fox in the form of Cameron Diaz. By the time Ted learns the truth, Healy's already putting on the moves on Mary with the help of a fake identity and a pair of gargantuan dentures. To counter this, without himself being exposed as a `stalker,' Ted has to reintroduce himself under similarly false pretenses. Will Mary go for this old near-flame? And what will happen when she learns the truth?A winning romantic comedy with gut-busting boundary-breaking bathroom humor and a sly sense of what makes people tick, `There's Something About Mary' is impossibly optimistic and reassuring even as it buries your head in the gutter for cheap laughs. That's probably what redeems it and makes it such a joy to watch over and over again, the fact that this proto-`American Pie' has a real heart. The makers of the film, Peter and Bobby Farrelly, reveal in their DVD commentary that Ted's reaction to Healy's news of Mary's condition is the key to making the film work, and they are right.Frankly, I could live in a world without `American Pie' and so many other stupid raunch-fests of its ilk, but `Mary' is pure gold all the way through. Not only is the comedy saved by virtue of its brilliance (I never heard a theater laugh so hard all the way through as I did seeing this in a stuffy Greenwich, CT cinema), it's also a very cleverly put-together film, with a lot of plot twists that hold up as well as the humor during repeat viewings. It's interesting to read people's comments and see them say that it would have been a good film if they had held off on the bad-taste stuff. That was kind of what put it on the map in the first place, the `hair gel' scene and Magda's breasts and Ted's zipper problems, but I see what they mean. You almost could make this film into a Hallmark romantic film, with minimal comedy of any kind, and it would still be interesting. I don't think I'd watch it 23 times like I have this version, however. The film never stops upping the ante on the ick-meter, a large part of what makes it brilliant.Diaz and Stiller blend very well together, with special kudos to Diaz for being so utterly wonderful and charming in the title role. You understand what the title means without ever having it explained. Also terrific are the supporting players, major ones like Matt Dillon and Chris Elliott as well as Harland Williams as the six-minute abs guy and, of course, Puffy the dog. Jonathan Richman and his drummer are especially valuable in their cameo bits that bookend the various acts in the movie, with songs that manage to be as funny and affecting as the show they are built around. And the end credit sequence is the all-time best. I still smile when I hear `Build Me Up Buttercup' on the radio, don't you?

The plot is nothing new: A guy trying to get the love of the one he admired. We all have seen something like this in the past, and we will see something like this in the future. But in this movie the plot isn't important.When you watch it you just know how it's gonna end, and so the focus is not on the plot but the actual happenings in the movie, and there's a lot. First, the movie is funny, with its many gags that just keeps on coming (a Farrelly Bros. tradition). They might not be in everyone's taste, but at least they aren't forced or out of place. Second, the people seem real enough to be in the situations they brought themselves into (kudos for the great acting, though it could be better). Third, Cameron Diaz is adorable, beautiful, and a marvel to look at. Plus, she got the job carrying the whole movie and she accomplished that ever so gracefully. You just can't help but fall in love with her too, along with every guy in the film.This is a very good romantic comedy by the Farrelly Bros.. Just like in "Dumb and Dumber" or "King Pin", the brothers have made a comedy that has just the right amount of everything. Excellent job!!

I was expecting one of the funniest movies ever, but laughs were very rare. I kept waiting and waiting and waiting for something really hilarious to happen, but it never did.  Dumb and Dumber was hilarious from the very start when Jim Carrey drove up to the Austrian girl and said G'day Mate.  This movie sorely missed the comic talent of Carrey or even Jeff Daniels.  This was basically a Chris Elliott movie, see Cabin Boy for details.

I don`t like comedies but I do enjoy much of the Farrelly Brothers stuff and THERE`S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY is their greatest achievment which is probably down to their casting . Ben Stiller is perfect as Ted while Matt Dillon is absolutely outstanding as sleazy ( And boy do I mean sleazy ) private investigator Pat Healy . My only criticism is of Cameron Diaz who`s slightly bland , but she is attractive and that`s all that matters
I suppose how funny you`ll find this film is down to your own subjective opinion of what should or shouldn`t be made fun of . I`ll be honest and say that jokes featuring stalking , serial killers , semen , spiking doggie snacks with drugs and learning difficulties are all fair game ,and perhaps I`m being too honest in saying I laughed out loud at these serious subjects being made fun of ?Sorry if this review has been very short but I find it difficult to write hundreds of words about a film I love

I shall assume that most people know the basic plot of this romantic comedy about a man trying to track down his High School sweetheart and cut directly to the chase. This is not nearly as good a film as the critics would have you believe. The styles that make up this film (gross out comedy and romantic fluff) really do not work together. The result is a film that, like some of the characters, is schizophrenic. However, there are many good points to be going on with.In many places the film is very, very, funny. The infamous `trapped in trouser-fly' scene is cleverly put together, and the whole 1985 prologue is extremely well thought-out. Keith David walks away with the acting honours for the whole movie as Mary's black step-father, who also gets the best line: `Don't make me open a can of Whoop-ass now!'. Bad taste proliferates here like fungus in a petri dish. A dog is poisoned, resuscitated with an electric cord, set on fire and fed Speed, there is some terrifying nudity, and the hair-gel sequence has already passed into American movie folklore. Do not watch this film if you are easily offended. The performances are not bad in general, but there is something lacking. Ben Stiller gets surprisingly little to do, and Lee Evans' American accent is very bad for such a talented comedian. On the other hand, Diaz is surprisingly good, making the best of a badly written character.The Farellys seem to think that they can handle the gentler sections, but the opposite is unfortunately the case. They are incapable of the softer scenes between Stiller and Diaz, and constantly inject humour into all the wrong places. On the whole the film is quirky, with popular folk singer Jonathan Richman narrating through song and getting shot at the end. If you don't expect too much from this then you will enjoy yourself, particularly if you see it with friends as I did. But when the trailers are more exciting than the film itself, you can't help thinking twice about whether you should have seen Armageddon instead.

it disappointed me in all ways... So very corny, so predictable One type of humour that I do not really appreciate (too ironic, I guess)cheap entertainment...

This film is without doubt one of the funniest films ever made. Amazing performances from everyone combined with a fantastic script make it laugh out loud hilarious. Will make your stomach hurt from laughing so much.