The only problem i found about "Thirteen Ghosts" is that it is not scary. It has the elements to be a horror movie, the ghosts, the gore, but it is not frightening at all.So this film can be a real party pooper if you're watching it with the lights off at your girlfriend's house waiting for her to grab your arm through the hard scenes, or expect to enjoy having some nightmares about it. But, omitting that--yeah, i know it's hard to omit that a movie labeled as "horror" is not scary--, i judge it as a very interesting film. The production design is great; the glass house is a state of the art, away from your typical haunted house, looking both luxurious and somehow creepy at the same time. That innovation, carried out with such a splendid result, is worth my applause. So is the decision to make the ghosts be real actors in the set, not digital freaks. Human monsters, even if having to go through 4+ hours of make-up sessions, even if having to use a double amputee actor to play a particular ghost, are the film's best trump card. There are good ideas in this film, and they're very well developed. It doesn't deserve a bad score.

The movie is fine. It could have been so much more. It's all right there for the taking. They're remaking everything so why not remake something they could truly improve upon? So my review of this is that it's fun, but you'll feel that there is a lot of lost potential with this. I give it a 6, but it could've been a classic! That's the hardest part to take in when you think about the movie.

This is one of those movies that you cannot hate fully, but you cannot like fully either. Something is missing, I can't point a finger to EXACTLY what it is, but I know if "it" were included, this movie would have been a blockbuster.It's a great Halloween "popcorn" film. It's entertaining. It's a nice attempt at an update of a movie that wasn't that hot to begin with. I liked the actors, I just wish they had more to work with. I really liked the Ghosts, I wished they were developed more, had more exposure/time onscreen and were a little bit more gruesome. Only a few ghosts out of the 12 got featured, I felt shortchanged.Maybe there was too much about the family for me..then again, maybe too little. Maybe the family didn't have enough goose-bumpy peril for me. I REALLY liked the daughter washing her face in the new bathroom scene. Maybe there should have been ALOT more of that kind of suspense/horror. I loved what happened to the Lawyer. I HATED the ending, it just fell apart for me. But, I loved the Nanny's closing line at the end and I think it would have been more effective if the film was a whole lot scarier and gruesome. I have to wonder, is there stuff on the editing floor that didn't make it?I watch this film everytime it comes on Cable-TV for it IS interesting, and there are parts that are good. Then there are parts that ruin it. Character development that has plot holes as big as the grand canyon. It was as if they wanted to make a horrific, scary ghost movie and just when they were about to let go, they pulled back. But ya know, you can still watch it and be entertained.Thir13en Ghosts 2? Only if the makers, the scriptwriter, etc., are allowed to let go and its released with the sheer horror, fear, gruesome tale it looks like it was headed in.I know it may offend alot of folks if Thir13en Ghosts went that "balls-out" route, but for what we're paying to get into movie houses now...do me a favor and scare the hell outa me!!! I can take it!!! Make me jump out of my seat ALOT...scream...grab onto my boyfriend and/or whomever else is sitting nearby! Trust me, I'll come back for more.This film had all the elements in place and it just peter-ed out.

I watched this movie last night, and I thought it was entertaining. Sure, it's a B-movie and has its flaws - it's a bit silly, it's not particularly horrifying (although I must admit no movie has scared me in 10-15 years, and I've watched quite a lot of horror flicks), it's a tad silly (Ghostbusters meets Buffy the Vampire Slayer?). But as B-horror movies go, this one is entertaining for those who like films with supernatural phenomena and people dying in "imaginative" ways. Actually, Thir13en Ghosts reminded me of one of my favourite films, The Cube. But that's just the reason I can't give a lot of points for this movie - there are better B-movies with which to entertain yourself. Cube-films sum up the better parts of the film and dispense with boring love-issues. But then again, there are heck of a lot more crappier films than this, and it was funny enough for me to even buy it for five or so euros in case I came across this in a store.

For fans of nephew Arthur Kriticos(Tony Shaloub), you might find the film interesting enough to watch, other than that , buyer beware. Cyrus Kriticos(F. Murray Abraham), is the well renowned ghost hunter and collector. He needs a certain number and specific ghosts in order to fulfill his evil plan.Arthur has met with a personal tragedy, his wife died in a home fire, and he has inherited another home from his Uncle Cyrus. He moves in with his family , daughter Kathy(Shannon Elizabeth) and son Bobby(Alec Roberts). Subplot of Dennis Rafkin(Mathew Lillard) as super-sensitive paranormal investigator, who worked for Cyrus, and now comes to the aid of the Kriticos family.Subplot # 2 Kalina Oretzia(Embeth Davidtz) as another ghost hunter, who may have her own agenda. The direction is tawdry and pedantic. Jump cuts and abrupt scene changes only carry so far.The lack of emotional involvement dooms this film from the start. It fails to establish an emotional connection with the main characters, and the ghosts are shown as evil, rather than victims.So , there is little connection with them either. Certainly with such a talented cast, they could have made a better effort, but I suppose that most of the money was used for special effects,and as usual, that isn't enough to save this trick for Halloween, not much of a treat. 4 out of 10 on the boo meter, get your scares from "Fright Night" 1 or 2. A reel(pun intended) , disappointment.

This is by far the worst and most pathetic film I have seen in years. It is not that it is so bad that it is laughable, it is that it is so bad it is painful to watch. My friend next to me began staring at the wall because he just couldn't stand the stupidity anymore.There is no buildup and the characters are instantly thrown into the plot with little background. This makes it so the audience couldn't care less what happens to these people, and actually hopes they get killed so we won't have to hear them spout their pointless lines any longer. It was as if the makers of this film got all the special effects done and then realized they forgot to write plot and dialogue.Therefore, the audience is given such classic cliches  as "This house is so big. We will never get this done. Let's split up." I just kept being dumbstruck by all the stupid angles this movie was trying to go in. The acting was laughable and I am surprised the performers could keep a straight face while delivering their ridiculous lines. The worst of these characters was the terrible exploitation of the fast talking black actress whose soul purpose in the film was to spout off stupid tired cliched lines that are intended to get a laugh. Shannon Elizabeth, although beautiful, also shared in this pathetic wasteland of meaningless lines and had no point in this movie beyond being pretty. Her little brother was equally terrible and I was glad they forgot about the two during half the movie.
The film also contradicts itself an many ways- the actors can talk freely through the "soundproof" glass. Also, when the house is foiled in a unbelievably easy manner, this "unbreakable" glass explodes. Interesting....Avoid this film at all costs.

I love this film when I was growing up, and when I first watch it, it was scary to me like the ghost are scary like I was covering my eyes when I watch this movie as a kid. This is my most favorite film from Dark Castle, and this is a film to recommend for people that are new to Dark Castle.This is my favorite reboot.I didn't even know this film was a remake, and the make-up effect are gruesome looking.It was sad when Dennis died. I think Matthew Lllard was a good actor in this movie. I don't care what people say that this movie is dumb, and stuff like that. I think this film is better than Prom Night (2008) it wasn't a very good movie at all but Thirteen Ghost is better like in the movie they weren't over-doing it like running, and hide but this movie they ran into a room with spells that the ghost can't come in. I wish this movie show some other ghost, and I understand the using C.G.I is expensive but I don't care if this film over use C.G.I it still the same film to me. This movie is awesome!

This is a chiller remake with grisly horror, genuine chills and shocks . When Cyrus Kriticos (F. Murray Abraham) , a very rich collector of unique things dies, he leaves it all to his nephew and his family. All including his house, his fortune, and his malicious collection of ghosts. As reclusive Dr. Zorba has died and left his eerie mansion to his penniless nephew Cyrus Zorba (Tony Shaloub) and his sons (Shannon Elizabeth , Alec Roberts) . Along with the house, the Zorba family has also inherited the occultist's collection of 12 ghosts (Laura Mennell as The Bound Woman , Kathryn Anderson as The Withered Lover , Craig Olejnik as The Torn Prince , Shawna Loyer as The Angry Princess , Xantha Radley as The Pilgrimess , Ernst Harth as The Great Child , Laurie Soper as The Dire Mother , Herbert Duncanson as The Hammer), who can only be seen through Zorba's special goggles.The house suddenly closes itself and they encounter trapped inside and soon supernatural creepiness begin frightening the hosts . Then they'll spend a ghastly night in the spooky house with killings-laden history . The family members, their lives at risk upon the discovery a strange book that lies hidden somewhere in the house , they receive aid from unexpected woman (Embeth Davidtz) as the threat to their lives is revealed .This eerie story contains bit good fun with grisly killing , relentless horror and lots of blood and gore. The chiller version packs genuine chills and terrifying deaths such as a horrible quartering . It's silly but amusing fun and with an excessive use of computer generator FX and special make-up in charge of Robert Kurtzman , Howard Berger and Greg Nicotero . The monstrous ghosts are the real stars of this production , being rightly realized by means of an excellent make-up and magnificent special effects . Some scenes are clumsily shot but the movie has some good moments here and there , the illogical parts in the argument are more than compensated for the excitement provided by the creepy ghosts . The film was lavishly produced by Dark Castle , production specialized on terror genre and in charge of Joel Silver , Robert Zemeckis and Gilbert Adler ; both of them have produced successful terror movies dealing with eerie tales about horror , grisly killings and lots of blood and gore such as ¨House of haunted hill¨, ¨Return to house of haunted hill¨ , ¨Gothika¨, ¨Ghost ship¨, ¨House of wax¨ , Whiteout¨ , ¨Splice¨ , ¨The reaping¨ , ¨Orphan¨ , among others . The motion picture was professionally directed though without originality by Steven Beck who subsequently filmed ¨Ghost ship¨. The film resulted to be an acceptable but inferior remake from superior ¨13 ghosts¨ by William Castle . It was plenty of gimmicks, leaps from the screen and surprises descending on cinema-goers such as hidden wires and others . Of course the biggest film about this astonishing story is this vintage 1960 classic version rendition by William Castle that was starred by Charles Herbert as Buck Zorba , Jo Morrow as Medea Zorba , Martin Milner as Benjamen Rush , Rosemary DeCamp as Hilda Zorba and Donald Woods as Cyrus Zorba .

An interesting concept and a fun cast couldn't save this one. It's impossible to take seriously. It doesn't even take itself seriously. It's not a comedy horror film, yet it's full of wise cracks meant to get some chuckles out of us. This killed any would-be tension. Though it tries, it's not really funny or scary. I'm a big Matthew Lillard fan and will watch almost any project that involves him. I like his style. He got me through this movie but couldn't make me care about the story or the characters. I'm also a fan of the show "Monk," so Tony Shalhoub was a big draw for me. Sadly, his character is dry and unpleasant and nowhere near as interesting or likable as his "Monk" character.The house itself is interesting, but like the ghosts trapped within its glass walls, it all becomes repetitious and redundant before the movie is over. The ghosts are graphic, gory and absolutely cheesy in their appearance and actions. Out of 12 ghosts, you would think at least one of them would be a compelling character. The story itself is way too random and full of holes. I suppose there is a small audience who would enjoy this cheesy, 1990s esque horror niche, but for those looking for good storytelling, you won't find it here.

As I've said so many times before...people, this is just a movie.  It is not intended to make deep social comment; it is not meant to reflect reality; the characters are not obligated to exercise good judgment; the fact that this movie is supposed to be "based on" the earlier version is not really relevant; and it ought to be possible to be entertained by a movie without necessarily feeling genuinely scared.I find this to be a very entertaining movie.  Good special effects, decent acting, lots of action, neat props and mechanicals, and some unique ghosts make this a lot of fun.  Was I scared?  No.  I was startled sometimes, but not scared.So what IS wrong with this movie?  Well, I'm back to my usual gripe about action movies.  There's a point in the film where one character says to three other characters, "Stay right here until I get back. Don't touch anything."  Without going into detail, let me simply state the obvious:  the other characters don't obey him and the results are not good.  This is always a big turn-off to me, because the people who disobey almost always end up getting out safely, while other people die for their mistakes.  In another film, for example, a family in the Federal witness protection program is told not to contact their old friends.  The daughter, however, can't live without calling her boyfriend at least once.  The bad guys intercept the phone call, show up at the "safe house," and end up killing several US Marshals.  Of course, the daughter is oblivious to the damage she has caused and goes on to live happily ever after.  Just once I'd like to see the survivors turn to the person who was reckless and say, "That was all your fault!" and blow the person away in a hail of lead.Now, back to THIS film.  I recommend it if you enjoy over-the-top horror/action films, but not if you are looking for some sort of psychological thriller or a moody mystery.  If you liked "Dog Soldiers" and "An American Werewolf in London," then you should like this movie.*** out of ****

Thir13en Ghosts is a fun concept ruined by how the movie is edited. The flashing images got extremely tiresome very quickly. Roger Ebert was right when he said that this movie is an attack on the senses that is literally painful to watch at times. Many times I had to look away due to the fact that I could feel a headache coming on. I can't even imagine watching this in the cinema as I would probably have to walk out. It's a shame because its a horror movie with potential. The practical visual effects are very effective and some of the imagery is genuinely unsettling. On top of that the cast is very fun as it's always great to see recognizable actors in horror movies. Matthew Lillard is once again great in a very over-the-top way as he kind of tries to emulate what he did in the much better Scream. I'm disappointed because the movie had potential to be very entertaining. Steve Beck's other movie, Ghost Ship doesn't have editing as obnoxious as this and because of that I found it much more enjoyable to watch than this.