If you're a Millennial like me, you probably experienced the phenomena known as 'Titanic-mania' during your childhood, where everyone was obsessed with this movie. It was in theatres for almost a year, and every girl between 8-20 was obsessed with Leonardo DiCaprio. Titanic was everywhere in the late 1990s, and because of its popularity and reputation as a gushy romance movie popular with teenage girls, it attracted a lot of hate. Despite winning numerous Oscars, Titanic, for the longest time, had a negative reputation, especially among men.In hindsight, if you had your image of Titanic shaped by the negative media landscape surrounding it in the late 90s to the 2000s, I highly suggest you give it another go. It really is a wonderful film, and it's enjoyable and fun even if you're a guy. The special effects are second to none, the acting is great and James Horner's soundtrack is absolutely majestic. Even the love story itself, while a bit gushy in parts, is actually quite sweet and endearing. Both Rose and Jack are full realized, strong characters who you care about.My advice, especially to 20-30 something year old men who were told all their life that 'Titanic sucks', is to give it a chance. You're sleeping on not only a great drama, but a great action movie as well.

I've never watched Titanic until now. It caught my interest when I heard the story about those 5 people who lost their lives on an expedition to the Titanic.I've heard about this movie for years and finally decided to watch it. It's honestly one of the best movies I've seen. I had so many emotions watching it. Laughter, tears, anger, terror etc.The characters were phenomenal. To think of all of those people who really went through pure terror. I couldn't imagine.Needless to say, if you have not seen this movie, please go watch it. I had to add it to my list of favorite movies.Job well done to everyone involved in making this masterpiece.

I have watched Titanic how many times I don't know. Everytime I watch it, I still cry, laugh, smile, and feel. The story flows with tension throughout the movie; two actors' acting and chemistry need applaud; Sinking ship is realistically filmed; 'My Heart Will Go On' is perfect fit for Jack and Roses' love story and is timeless as well. All the movie's factors are fully qualified. What more can I say? It is the masterpiece.

Titanic was not as good as I was hoping it to be.... I was disappointed in the film. I want to like this film because Leonardo DiCaprio is in the film because I like him - he's a great actor! But I could not get past the fictional romance the movie was focused on. I was hoping for more of a documentary type of a film but, alas, it was not so.The casting and acting was quite good! The set was realistic as well. There are good moments in the movie so I can't knock it completely.IDK, maybe I will have to be alone and in a romantic mood to enjoy this movie more than I actually did the first couple times I viewed it. Or, maybe, I really did want a modern documentary type of movie on The Titanic.I hate to dislike this film but I do. It's a movie I should at least like better than I do but I do not. I have to rate the film low due to the fictional romance the film was focused on.6/10

Ah, yes, the film that propelled Leonardi DiCapro to super stardom, became the first film to gross $1 billion, and stayed on the top of the box office charts for 12 years (only to be kicked off the top by another James Cameron film, Avatar).It is said 'Titanic' is the film with the most continuity errors of all films. Despite this, though, the film was indeed a masterpiece. The sheer scale of the sets and entire production were simply mind blowing! The sinking of the Titanic was the greatest ship sinking scene EVER and was done with such meticulous detail that one would think they actually really sunk the ship. Off course, that was not the case, though, as it were all (very elaborate) sets, most of which were destroyed during the making of the film.Leonardo made for a very likable hero, quite frankly one a lot of guys can relate to. The young lovers were so different and yet so alike, and their love story was almost endearing. I must admit, the jumping backwards and forwards in time was a bit unnecessary and resulted in an overlong epic. They should only have told the 1912 story. Apart from that, the film was thrilling, exciting and fascinating in every sense of the word!

Titanic is an over-hyped, over-rated piece of garbage. It goes an hour too long and winds on for what seems like decades. The plot is a poorly written, romantic piece of rubbish and the performances by DeCaprio and Winslet are mediocre. However, Billy Zane and Kathy Bates bring some some hope to the non-existent story line. Putting the plot and acting aside, Titanic is a technical milestone. The sequences where the Titanic sinks are nothing short of mind-blowing and you would think you are on the ship. It is lucky that the sinking of the ship is so brilliant, because after the length of time the viewer has to wait, it is much deserved. All in all, this is a movie that should have sunk in an hour and a half.

I first saw "Titanic" in fairly early 1998, I think, here in Australia. I went with a girl I had recently got to know on the Internet. She had already seen it, and spoke in raptures about it after we left the cinema, while I was hesitating somewhat, as I was not sure about what I had just witnessed. Since then, I have seen the film at least twice more, including just now, and I stick by my opinion that I have never seen a movie that is so bad and so good at the same time. The bad, as so many people have said, is the script. Well, the characters too. The main romance is so embarrassingly contrived as to be juvenile, and this is not helped by the character of Rose. Quite frankly, I can't stand her, and can only wonder why Jack did not push the little brat off the ship when he had the chance. Speaking of Jack, I liked him. He and Molly Brown were, by far, the two best characters shown. I'm not bagging the acting of Winslett. I think she did well. I just thought her character was loathsome. Not much better is Cal. I couldn't stand him either, and yes, I know you're not meant to like him, but I didn't like the way I didn't like him! Talk about a corny villain. Snobby, cowardly... by the time he picked up the child to get his way off the ship, I was thinking, "Alright, we get the idea. He's a creep." Really, I thought the whole "first class and the rest" concept was overdone. Yes, I know it was an issue, but it's so clumsy and obvious as to be cringe worthy. But probably the worst and most disappointing character was the captain. Here was someone I would have loved to got to know. Ultimately, the sinking was all his fault. Yet there was no depth to him, instead just coming off as a feeble human being who did and said little, and who looked (understandably) more and more desolate as he saw what was happening. But then there is the good. The sinking. Absolutely incredible. I am always fascinated by the fact that the ship started to sink but, as is the nature of such events, everything looks normal for a while. People moved around as usual, the ship just kept motoring along. And yet we knew it would be under water in a couple of hours. The gradual submersion is enthralling, and technically brilliant. This is why I like to come back to the film, and no it's not because I'm a disaster fan (which I am) who just wants to see people die and not care about things like romance. Not at all. Really, no. A key to such films is depth of character and their relationships with each other. No real people means no emotional charge when said disaster happens. The effects are breathtaking, and the model work stunning. I can't enthuse enough about this part of the film.But the bad comes close to killing it all, and my view does not change after each time I see it. "Titanic" polarises me like no other film I've ever seen. It is awful. It is tremendous. Ultimately, the mixture makes it a middling film at best, which is a great shame. How it won Best Picture at the Oscars remains one of the biggest jokes in cinema history. But maybe, if we can forget about the bad, we can revel in the good, and appreciate some of the most stunning moments ever filmed in Hollywood.

Watching 'Titanic' was like having 2 people wrestle with a remote channel changer. Just when the movie becomes (historically) interesting, the other person grabs the remote and switches it to a pedestrian daytime soap opera. Did Kate have to be on hand at every step that led to the sinking? (her and Leo are on the side of the deck where the ice hits, of course, JUST missing them; OH! let's put her next to the Captain when he learns Titanic's fate and lack of life boats). The tragedy was story enough and James Cameron did a brilliant business decision to shove a pre-teen love opera to the foreground so girls could flock to the theater over and over to see Leo alive again and again and again...! Give the channel changer back so we can please continue with the story of the ship. Yes, I heard some crying when Leo sank into the abyss...But no sniveling when the little boy (who Leo tries to rescue before the boy is grabbed away from his panicky father) is swept away by the flooded corridor. So much for crying priorities!!I'm a big Cameron fan! Titanic has left him permanently wealthy. And he's tapped into a genre the same way Lucas tapped with Star Wars in attracting a select category of people that were willing to see this over and over (Titanic's billion dollar revenue was the result of many repeat viewings worldwide combining history with poster boy imagery).Special effects were brilliant! But I'll take the 1958 black and white "A Night To Remember" movie instead.Today's lesson: If you're going to use an ax to free someone shackled with chains, don't aim, close your eyes tight, THEN swing hard so you won't see the spraying blood. This is life and death...better leave it to luck!7 out of 10

For all of this film's popularity, I blame the public most. Along with Avatar, Titanic shows me that audiences are less clever than they should be and fall for superficial drivel. The biggest problem about Titanic is that it isn't about Titanic at all. We could just as easily called this "sinking ship" or it could just as easily have taken place on the Lusitania, and the story would still have ignored the tragedy whether it was an iceberg or a U-Boat that sank the ship.What is most disappointing is the film could have been a wonderful set piece and could have produced compelling drama. For instance, Molly Brown was actually a real leader on the life boats and took care of the sick and injured on the Carpathia, and mail room workers sacrificed their lives to try and save the mail for people back in the States. Granted, these are but a few instances of bravery, and a film needs central characters for a plot, but the story decided to focus on something petty and unrealistic in the face of true drama.The problem with the romance is this: it's contrived and it moves WAY too quickly. First, there is the issue that Jack totally takes advantage of Rose. She was about to jump off the Titanic. She clearly has some depression issues, and he thinks it's a good time to woo her? And Rose herself is a contradictory character. She seems to hate the life of a rich woman without independence, but she also looks down at Jack's social status as not being sophisticated enough. Besides, if she hated Cal that much she could just leave. Perhaps you say that Jack had to be the catalyst to that decision. That's fine, but remember that giving advice is one thing, swooping in and starting a tryst is another.And about Jack and Rose's relationship itself, just how prevalent could it have been, even in the 1990's, for a couple to engage in intercourse after knowing each other just two nights? Yes, it happens but not on average, especially between two people from totally different worlds like Jack and Rose and in the 1910's! And just where does anyone think the relationship would have gone after Titanic docked? Does Rose expect Jack, clearly a drifter, to provide for a family? For all of her desire to be independent and taken seriously, I don't think Rose wants to be destitute. I can understand the events if the two grew up together, but relationships that move this fast tend to be based on impulse, not love, and so they end up failing, yet as an audience, we are expected to believe that true love blossomed and died on screen. I felt like I was watching an episode of 90210. I'm sorry, but that is the definition of contrived. I am not saying scrap a love story period, but this "relationship" became a smokescreen for dividing classes. The movie goes out of its way to say that Jack is Jack because he is poor, and it can't work with Rose if he is rich.I know it may not be fair to bring up Avatar, but it does expose some of Titanic's characterization flaws. Our "villains" Cal Hockley and Rose's mother, much like the military and the corporation in Avatar are totally evil and Rose and Jack and the Na'Vi are totally good. The first class passengers are totally obnoxious. The third class is totally noble and blameless. So caricatures of people or groups of them constitute good writing? Granted, the struggle for third class to get to the deck for lifeboats was actually somewhat compelling, but it doesn't change the fact that everyone is portrayed at an extreme. The fact that people heralded the film is a sign that the audience accepted those caricatures and extreme portrayals as accurate.I will give the film some merit though. The design of Titanic has stood the test of time. After twelve years and change, it's still a beautiful set to see. Costumes, lighting and the ship itself are appealing and put the viewer directly in the setting. It's really a shame that style over substance has become Cameron's focus. His previous films actually had character studies. Aliens was a piece on Ripley's development and a Vietnam parallel. Can Titanic boast such a comparison? No. Still, it looked as good as the rest of his films.Titanic, for all its popularity, boils down to a superficial 1990's teen drama that targeted girls aged 15-18. That it decided to manifest itself during a tragic calamity is an insult. Why so many people older than 18 couldn't see Titanic for what it really was, is the bigger insult. Perhaps it reminded many of spontaneity long gone and that they wanted it again. Good Burger reminds me that I want a juicy sandwich from "In and Out" but that doesn't mean Good Burger was a good film.

Back in 1997, do I remember that year: Clinton bans cloning research, the unfortunate death of Princess Diana, the Marlins won the world series and a woman gave birth to septuplets. This was also the big year in the release of Titanic, one of the biggest films of all time: a tale about the ship of dreams, about a boy and a girl who fall in love but are torn apart by their social class and at the height of their emotional commitment the ship meets with disaster. I don't think anybody could have expected Titanic to be as HUGE as it was, the movie was bigger than life and had millions of fans, 85% of them being teenage girls, I was 12 years old at the time, and of course saw the movie multiple times. It was the film that made me believe that the love that Jack and Rose shared was so real and beautiful. At the time I felt that Titanic could do no wrong, of course I grew up and didn't watch the film since I was 14, a couple years ago I saw the film on DVD for 5.99 and figured that it was a good price and to see what I thought about the movie now. Was it worth the hype? Was it really the best movie of all time? Was that Leonardo's real nose? OK, I know that's silly to say, but I did re-watch the film. Being completely honest here, Titanic is a great movie, it delivered in romance, humor, disaster, emotions and took us on this incredible maiden voyage.The film starts with Brock Lovett and his team exploring the wreck of the RMS Titanic, searching for a necklace set with a valuable blue diamond called the Heart of the Ocean. Unsuccessful, they instead discover a drawing of a young woman wearing the Heart of the Ocean, dated the day the Titanic sank. 101-year-old Rose Dawson Calvert learns of the drawing, and contacts Lovett to inform him she is the woman in the drawing. When asked if she knew the whereabouts of the necklace, Rose Calvert recalls her memories aboard the Titanic, revealing for the first time that she was Rose DeWitt Bukater. In 1912, the upper-class 17-year-old Rose boards the ship with her controlling fiancé, Cal Hockley and her desperate for money mother, Ruth DeWitt Bukater. Distraught and frustrated by her engagement, Rose attempts suicide by jumping from the stern. Before she leaps, a drifter and artist named Jack Dawson intervenes who convinces her not to jump. Jack and Rose strike up a tentative friendship as she thanks him for saving her life, and he shares stories of his adventures traveling and sketching; their bond deepens when they leave a first-class formal dinner of the wealthy for a much livelier gathering of dancing, music and beer in third-class. After revealing their love for each other and wish to leave together when the ship docks, they then witness the ship's fatal collision with an iceberg and now must escape together.So does Titanic live up to it's hype? I still say that this is a great movie to watch, I think that there were and still are quite a few haters that for some reason just want to trash the movie because it had won a ton of awards and Leo Mania was born at the time. Everyone is entitled to an opinion, but please don't let the haters bother you from watching this great movie. It has great acting, amazing effects, beautiful costumes, outstanding sets, a well-written story and still looks flawless. Love it or hate it, you have to admit this movie didn't get a lot of hype just because of Leo's baby face or Kate's amazing ability to cry on sight, this film is something special. Otherwise I don't think we'd still be talking about it so many years later. Kate and Leo had this amazing chemistry that in my opinion made it one of the greatest love stories of all time. Despite the story not being the most original with the rich girl loves poor boy plot, I think it worked extremely well because they fit so well together. James Cameron, the extreme perfectionist that he is, went over time and money budgets for Titanic, but this was his baby and it paid off very well. James had captured everything about Titanic and the sinking so well. He respectfully shows what terror the victims went through that night and made sure that this wasn't just a love story but to remember those who lost their lives on the tragic voyage. He had every right in my opinion to scream "I'm king of the world!" at the Oscars, because this movie blew everyone out of the water(no pun intended), you know what? I'm going to admit it, I love Titanic, even past my teen years I absolutely adore this movie, it will always hold a special place in my heart, it has too since I saw this film 8 times in the theater when it was released. Remember one thing, be true to yourself, don't follow the crowd, lovers or haters, if you go with the hype you're always going to go crazy over a film before viewing it, then if you thought the film was just alright for some reason it comes off as the worst movie ever. I do recommend Titanic, it's a great one and sure to go down in the classics one day.10/10