This film isn't quite as good as "Goldeneye", but it still another fun addition to the series.Pierce Brosnan once again shines as James Bond, and Wai Lin, played by Michelle Yeoh, is quite possibly the toughest Bond girl ever. She does a lot of karate and steals the show as much as Brosnan.Elliot Carver, played by Jonathan Pryce, is a pretty decent villain. He is nowhere near as intimidating as some of the best Bond villains, but he is certainly passable. His goals were a little more realistic than most Bond villains. His henchmen is just another Red Grant clone.The story, while not the deepest, has a lot of intriguing elements with Carver writing disasters in his newspaper and making them happen. The media angles makes a lot of sense these days. The locations work, especially Thailand.This film is up there with "Moonraker" as one of the most relentlessly action-packed entries in the series. We get a spectacular opening sequence, a chase in a parking garage with Bond using his remote-control BMW, a wicked motorcycle chase, and so much more.This is a very solid if slightly by-the-numbers entry in the series. There is rarely a dull moment, and there is enough action for several movies. Another fun Bond film.RATING: B

One of the standard received ideas of film criticism is to say that sequels are almost never as good as the original film. (There are also a few standard exceptions to this rule, such as 'The Godfather Part 2' and the second and third parts of the 'Lord of the Rings' trilogy). Subject to these exceptions, however, there seems to be a law of diminishing returns to the effect that the more sequels a franchise spawns, the worse they become. The Bond films, however, seem to me to provide the most striking exception to this principle. The franchise started with 'Dr No' in the early sixties, and 'Tomorrow Never Dies' amounts to 'James Bond XVIII', or 'James Bond XIX' if one includes 'Never Say Never Again' in the total. Despite this, one can watch the latest offerings with as much pleasure as the original Sean Connery films from the sixties and seventies. The Bond films are highly formulaic. They typically start with an action sequence before the opening credits that has little or nothing to do with the film that is to follow. The main story will involve Bond thwarting a dastardly plot by some megalomaniac bent on world domination. It will always involve at least one extended chase sequence, and possibly two or more. The main character, apart from Bond and the villain, will always be a beautiful young woman who helps Bond in his quest and who will end up by falling for him. There will always be at least one other beautiful girl, either as a secondary heroine or as a villainess. The villain will always have a small army of henchmen ready to do battle on his behalf. The story will always end with a shoot-out, normally in the villain's headquarters, in which Bond manages to avert the threatened disaster at the last minute.'Tomorrow Never Dies' contains all these formulaic elements. It is, nevertheless, in my view one of the better entries in the Bond canon, for a number of reasons beyond the fact that Pierce Brosnan is the best Bond since Connery. These can be summarised as follows:-1. The Villain. Jonathan Pryce plays Elliott Carver, a newspaper and media tycoon intent on whipping up a war between Britain and China. The reason is to facilitate the accession to power of his ally, a renegade Chinese general who has promised to give his organisation exclusive broadcasting rights in China. Bond villains have always provided scope for some splendidly over-the-top displays of acting, going back to Lotte Lenya's Rosa Klebb and Gert Frobe's Goldfinger. Although Pryce's Carver is more restrained than some, it falls within this tradition. At first sight the silver-haired bespectacled Carver seems mild-mannered and soft spoken, but soon reveals the raving megalomania which is the hallmark of the Bond villain. Particularly noteworthy is the speech where Carver states his ambitions as being 'power' and 'world domination'. Although he puts a liberal, metaphorical interpretation on these two concepts, the audience is left in no doubt that he means what he says quite literally. There is also a good performance from Gotz Otto as Carver's brutal German henchman, Stamper.2. The Girl. Admittedly, Teri Hatcher is rather wasted as the secondary Bond girl Paris Carver, Elliott's wife and a former girlfriend of Bond. Michelle Yeoh, however, is superb as the main female lead, the Chinese secret agent Wai Lin. (That's how it's spelled, although the pronunciation used in the film suggests that the name should actually be transliterated as Wei Lin). Apart from Michelle's striking looks, she is also an accomplished martial arts performer, and her skills are put to good use in this film. (Part of a trend of giving Bond girls a more active role, in contrast to the earlier films in the series where they were required to do little other than look decorative.) 3. The Chase Sequence. The main one, in which Bond and Wai Lin escape on a motorbike through the streets of Hanoi from the villains in a helicopter, is excellent. 4. The Opening Sequence. As usual, this has little to do with the main plot line. It does, however, fit in with a growing tendency in the Bond films, that of mocking or undermining the militaristic, macho values which the series was once accused of promoting. This film introduces a new comic character, the gung-ho, blustering Admiral Roebuck, a sort of naval equivalent of Colonel Blimp, who clashes with the more liberal 'M', the female chief of the British Secret Service. (I was interested to learn that the actors who play them, Geoffrey Palmer and Judi Dench, are husband and wife in real life). In the opening sequence, Bond narrowly prevents Roebuck's blundering attempt to bomb a gathering of international terrorists from setting off a nuclear explosion. The more active roles for female characters are also part of the trend towards a politically correct Bond, as is, perhaps, his remark that smoking is a 'filthy habit'. (The earlier films were often criticised for glamorising the habit by making Bond himself a smoker). As with all the Bond films, one can probably pull holes in the plot of 'Tomorrow Never Dies'. (The scene where Carver sinks a British warship by cutting a hole in the side with what looks like a giant chainsaw struck me as particularly implausible. What's wrong with a torpedo?) Nevertheless, the Bond films are not meant to be works of social realism and unlike, say, the novels of John Le Carre, have never purported to give an accurate picture of life in the British Secret Service. 'Tomorrow Never Dies' is a good example of what the Bond films have always been- superior escapist entertainment. 7/10

I first saw this in the early 2k on cable tv.Revisited it recently.This is the eighteenth in the Bond series and the second to star Pierce Brosnan as James Bond.After the sinking of HMS Devonshire in the Chinese-occupied waters in the South China Sea and the killings of Devonshire's survivors with weaponry loaded with Chinese ammunition, Bond has only 48 hours to investigate its sinking and avert a conflict between the People's Republic of China and the United Kingdom.This one doesn't have a good pre credit scene but it has an awesome motorcycle chase sequence.There is not sufficient action towards the end.The villain Elliot Carver ain't that good.This time Bond faces a psychopathic media mogul, Elliot Carver, hell bent on securing exclusive broadcasting rights in China for hundred years.Bond also faces Dr. Kaufman and his student Stamper.Bond gets to cool off with Cecilie Thomsen, Michelle Yeoh n Teri Hatcher.We have idiot henchmen in this movie.They try to break the car's windshield by hammer n other stuff but to no avail, they cud have tried shooting guns cos later when Bond flees with the car, the windshield breaks due to shooting.The car chase sequence is silly cos Bond manages to evade everything including a bazooka by just remote controlling the car.Some info on the great Dr. Kaufman : a professional assassin and a professor of forensic medicine (way before Dexter).Kaufman loves bragging about his professionalism and how his services as an assassin are in demand all over the world. Of all the methods at his disposal, apparently his specialty is the celebrity overdose.

It is more like a remake of the overused formula plot of old Bond movies where a megalomaniac steals and strikes the superpowers from a hideout to create a misunderstanding and start WWIII and become the principal bargainer in the process. It lacked intrigue, suspense, twists, not that many of Bond movies have that, but was far too straightforward, predictable and cliche. I always liked Brosnan , he is one of the better Bonds I felt, hope he had something more play to with in the opportunities he got to play this iconic character. 6/10

This action spy movie directed by Roger Spottiswoode originally had the title of 'Tomorrow Never Lies'. It was call that in order to represent the megalomaniacal Rupert Murdoch, William Randolph Hearst & Robert Maxwell like media mogul Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) quest to make tomorrow news come true by any means; even if it cause a world war between the United Kingdom and China. However a fax typo changed it forever and MGM found the error so attractive that they insisted on using it, although that it make little sense. Don't get me wrong, it sounds cool, but the title is very confusing. I never really got what it was supposed to mean. The only idea I can get is that the filmmakers wanted the new title to represent ego death, much in the same way the LSD heavy Beatles' song "Tomorrow Never Knows" did. This is why the film try to make James Bond (Pierce Brosnan)'s constant attempts to atone for the women whose lives he failed to save as a strong personal manifest to keep others alive. Yet that subplot involving ex-girlfriend Paris Carver (Teri Hatcher) lack any establish backstory. We're never really show any of their lovely dovely past through flashback. Nor does the dialogue give them much comedic charm with one another. If anything, it's seem like the duo really hate each other with their lack of on screen chemistry. It doesn't help that Brosnan and Hatcher feuded briefly during filming due to her arriving late due to pregnancy. You can tell that Brosnan didn't have fun talking to her. It also sucks that Teri played her so artificial and plain to the point that they cut her screen time after test audience's negative reactions toward how boring the character was. Honestly, the movie could work better if Monica Bellucci was case in that role or better yet Izabella Scorupco reprised her role as Natalya Simonova from 1995 Bond film 'Goldeneye'. That relationship was well established. Nevertheless I did dig Michelle Yeoh's role as Colonel Wai Lin, a skilled Chinese spy and Bond's ally. Bond and Lin did had some charm whenever they put together. Yet I found the whole them falling in love with each other in the third act, a bit unrealistic and rushed. I really don't think they should had made her into a clichés Bond girl that need to be rescue. She was pretty capable by herself with her martial arts skills. To add on that, I like Yeoh did all her own stunts. To tell you the truth, most of the movie action pieces were pretty awesome even if they were a bit over the top & a little impractical. The motorcycle escape while being pursued by a helicopter was very well choreographed and intense. The whole parking garage ambush & the opening weapon bazaar scene was also a lot of fun to see. If anything the climax was the only thing that was a bit lackluster as it fell into standard overdone recycle ending of an terrorist group trying to start a war between two powerful countries by nuking one of them; often seen before like in the 1967 film 'You Only Live Twice'. Plus it made Elliot Carver seem even hammier. Don't get me wrong, Pryce is great actor and he was mostly fine during most of the movie. I just found the last scenes with him to be just awkward. However original choice Anthony Hopkin would be killer in the role. It could had been awesome. As for the sociopathic henchmen Herr Stamper (Gotz Otto). I agree with critics and say that he was indeed a disappointing over the top one dimensional cartoony version of a 'Red Grant' rip off from 1963 'From Russia with Love'. In truth, I would rather have more scenes with Vincent Schiavelli as Dr. Kaufmann. At least he seem realistic whenever he takes great pleasure in shooting people. As for techno terrorist Henry Gupta played by magician Ricky Jay. I kinda glad they kept him as the tech guy as the whole throwing playing cards as weapons felt a little too 1960s gimmicky for the modern era of Bond films. Regardless it still kinda suck that this movie came out in the 1990s before the internet became a thing because to tell you the truth, it could had really work in today's society where misinformation from news outlets and social media is ever so presence especially when it comes to relationship with China. They could even reused the original plot for this movie where terrorists were trying to stop Hong Kong's turnover from British to Chinese control; which later became the bases of author Raymond Benson's 007 novel 'Zero Minus Ten' and update it to match the current crisis over there with the Water Revolution. Still it was a miracle that this movie was even made. After all, this 18th Bond film and second starring Brosnan had a troublesome production where filming started with no finished script nor key supporting characters cast. Even the music was somewhat of a mess as there were around twelve submissions with Sheryl Crow winning out in the end. Nevertheless I found composer David Arnold's composition "Surrender" performed by K.D Lang to be the best. This movie is also famous as the first film in its cinematic history to be entirely financed by advertisement endorsements from its sponsors. It really had way too much excessive product placement. Regardless it was also the first film to have nothing to do author Ian Fleming's work or life and the only one not to open as number one at the box office as it was going against James Cameron's masterpiece 'Titanic'. Even its clunky video game didn't have the same success as 'Goldeneye' did. Overall: While the movie is not as good as the first Brosnan's era Bond film. It still worth grabbing a martini shaken not stirred and seeing either today or tomorrow. So bond with it.

A far cry from Goldeneye, but It doesn't necessarily deserve all the hate it receives either. Tomorrow Never Dies is a fast paced affair, and an easily agreeable time-waster, but it's not the follow-up Goldeneye deserved, either. It's much too daft for the heavy plot that it has. The main reason this movie is entertaining is the spectacular stunts. It has some great action set pieces, which managed to make the time pass nicely. Michelle Yeoh makes for a refreshingly unique Bond Girl, due to her actual Martial Arts background. I dug the chemistry with her & Brosnan. Speaking of Brosnan He is very good as Bond. He has charisma and wit to spare. He's not quite as good as Timothy Dalton, but he is excellent nonetheless. Johnathan Pryce is decent as the villain. He is fitfully menacing and did the job overall. Teri Hatcher's character is a bit disposable, but she was good in her role. Desmond Llewelyn & Judi Dench are as classy as everFinal Thoughts: Instantly forgettable stuff, but it manages to be an effective time-waster. It's not a great Bond film, but it is an OK action film. I didn't mind it at all. 5.6/10

Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) is my seventh favorite James Bond 007 movie and Pierce Brosnan second best movie he did in my opinion. It is not better than GoldenEye but it is good decent action movie with great explosions, dangerous stunts and great action. Who is my favorite James Bond 007? That will definitely be Pierce Brosnan no one else, since his first film GoldenEye. I saw this movie as a fifteen year old teen I even have a poster at home from this movie. I love this movie I thought Roger Spottiswoode did a good job directing it. I thought it had decent stunts, decent action, less humor than Roger Moore. If you agree with me good, if you disagree with me that is your opinion. Tomorrow Never Dies is the 18th entry in the official James Bond film series.Pierce Brosnan makes his second appearance as Agent 007, James Bond heads to stop a media mogul's plan to induce war between China and the UK in order to obtain exclusive global media coverage. I love the opening scene in which in Russia Bond steals airplane with military missals and weapons who are been sold to international terrorist and brings them home. We see Pierce Brosnan flying an airplane. In real life Pierce Brosnan was scared of that airplane he thought the crew will killed him. You have a beautiful explosions from those airplanes. In Hamburg, Germany Bond breaks into the headquarters of Carver's media company and finds the office occupied by Henry Gupta, Carver's communications specialist and known techno-terrorist. He is been chased from security guys, because Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh) makes entry and she touches the alarm. Bond is being fired by machine guns in which he flees great action sequences.Bond drives a new car BMW 7 Series with a remote control on a cell phone Ericson. I miss those times in which we used Ericsson cell phone. In 2004 I had that phone for a year until it got broken and I had to buy a new phone. Bond with cell phone drives with his cell phone as a remotely without touching the steering wheel. I did read a complaint about this scene on IMDb that is not realistic and it shouldn't have been in this movie. Listen folks it is a fiction not realistic, it James Bond so who cares. I never mind that scene it was great action sequence in which Bond eluded his attackers and he drove his car off the wall ha ha.James Bond and Wai Lin in Saigon, Vietnam jumped off the building in Carver's HQ. They escaped Carver's henchman and the flee off the building. They slide down Carver's poster while been handcuffed. Great action sequence in which Pierce Brosnan and Michele Yeoh drove handcuff on a motorcycle. That was incredible dangerous stunt. I read Michelle Yeoh did her own stunt on the motorcycle and it was really painful too sit on that bike her legs and body hurt her. Cars and helicopter chased them until they hanker the helicopter and it explodes. Practical effect real explosion no CGI or shaky cam real action. Bond in Vietnam that was interested story well done acted. Bond on the ship a stealth craft that is invisible on the radar uses hand grenade and he actives with his watch the grenade explodes and he makes the ship visible on the radar. Bond kick's ass and he kill's on the end Carver. He throws Carver in to the sea drill excellent. Bond is fired with machine guns and he fires back killing several Carver's man.Jonathan Pryce plays a good memorable villain, 'the emperor of the air,' Elliot Carver who was prepared to go to any length to increase the power of his media empire. If you think actor Jonathan Pryce did not a good job playing a bad guy. Watch him Ronin (1998) with Robert De Niro a year after this movie he played another bad guy.Götz Otto plays Stamper, the loyal psychopath henchman who follows Carver's orders murdering a group of shipwrecked British sailors. He was a good second bad guy but he wasn't memorable like Famke Janssen as Xenia Onatopp.Judi Dench is once again as M and she is more handsome and awesome than she was in GoldenEye. She is a good heart person in this movie I thought the actress did her job well. Samantha Bond, Joe Don Baker and Desmond Llewellyn - all reprise their "GoldenEye" roles.Michelle Yeoh did a good job as Wai Lin the new Bond girl she was awarded for the role of Wai Lin. A martial artist of considerable skills, she preferred to work alone - until she begins to trust 007.Carver's wife Paris was played by the great beauty, Teri Hatcher was excellent as Paris Carver's wife. She was good in her role and her performance. After an assassin kill's Carver's wife here we seen Bond's remorse and feelings, not a stone killer like Daniel Craig in Quantum of Solace.Tomorrow Never Dies (1997) is the eighteenth spy film in the James Bond series to be produced by Eon Productions, and the second to star Pierce Brosnan as the fictional MI6 agent James Bond. Directed by Roger Spottiswoode, with the screenplay written by Bruce Feirstein.10/10 Great Bond theme, it is my seventh favorite James Bond 007 movie in top ten favorite Bond films. I love this film to death and in my opinion it is way underrated.

"Tomorrow Never Dies" manages to top "Diamonds are Forever" and J.W. Pepper as the dumbest thing to happen to Bond's cinematic incarnation, until "Die Another Day" came along, that is. It's blisteringly, unrelentingly, unbelievably stupid from start to finish. Yes, I've heard the defenses: "it's a Bond film, what do you expect?" seems to be a popular one. What's even sadder is that certain people relish this stupidity, and wish that this was how most Bond films were.I hate to say it, as he is a friendly and intelligent person and based on what those who are properly acquainted with him say, a remarkably professional and careful director, but Roger Spottiswoode's work as director here is poor for the most part, with the exception of the one truly great sequence in the film- the chase scene with Michelle Yeoh tied to Bond on a motorbike (probably thanks to a second-unit director anyway). It's not a confidently directed movie at all, and only looks somewhat good thanks to Robert Elswit's photography.I wish the direction at least was good, as it is hard to compound how atrocious this script is. The vast majority of the dialogue is among the most ridiculous you've ever heard (no, seriously, take a Michael Bay film and dumb down the worst scene then you've got "Tomorrow Never Dies" for basically its entirety). What's most insulting about this script is that Bond barely features in it. Oh, sure, Bond is present in most scenes, but for all he actually does and says it could have been just about anyone in the scene. He speaks strictly in short sentences the writer thought were witty or clever (boy, was he wrong), or partakes in action scenes. I've always defended Brosnan's Bond, but I realize now that I am defending his better Bond, and not the terribly-written and lazily performed version present in this flick and "Die Another Day". What's going on here? Let's end this with some positive comments: The score is good. It's much, much better than the "GoldenEye" score (oh why couldn't they have hired David Arnold for that movie?), and relies heavily on Barry-like arrangements of the Monty Norman theme, but the original parts are nice too. There are a couple of solid action scenes, and the motorbike chase really is terrific, but this movie is too dumb and too awkwardly-directed for it to work on any level.3/10

I love James Bond. I love Pierce Brosman's performance of 007.But honestly, the video game is better than this film. Tomorrow Never Dies has some underlying messages of the power of media-gone-wrong, but nothing about this film proves memorable. I actually had to refresh my memory by Youtubing scenes to remember what happened in this movie.2/5. Good action but forgettable in the era of the late 90s/early 2000s action movie boom.When I first watched this film, I didn't like it. Revisiting this film, I learned to appreciate it more as a true installment in the franchise.The first film without Albert Broccoli (RIP) that was true in spirit to his vision of James Bond.Tomorrow Never Dies (such a silly name) is a modern retelling of The Spy Who Loved Me with some changes to make it more fitting for a modern audience. It's my honest opinion that this film should be revisited and reexamined.Pierce Brosnan's portrayal of a more stylish, sleek, and tongue-in-cheek Bond is there. Action is satisfying and locations are exotic. Instead of a malevolent USSR or SPECTRE, we get the capitalist bogeyman as the antagonist. This makes the film much more relatable to today's world.Tomorrow Never Dies is a world where mass media has gotten too powerful and tries to start WWIII. Though I find it hard to imagine a media mogul buying a top-of-the-line stealth cruiser without anyone noticing, themes still echo today. Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) is an excellent hybrid of Steve Jobs' visionary idealism with Rupert Murdoch's ruthlessness. An artistic difference from the USSR or the evil shadow empire of SPECTRE.The anti-Bond strongman of Stamper (Gotz Otto) was an enjoyable portrayal that echos of Robert Shaw's performance of Red Grant in From Russia with Love. Though a bit more expressive, Gotz had an intimidating appearance on screen.Another aspect that I enjoyed about this film is the role of strong female characters. Early on we get M's flawless clapback of a general. Also, the Bond girl in this film, Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh) plays a strong female counterweight to Bond. She acts as a non-passive character, acts independently of Bond, and is strong/smart enough to hold her own.Of course, there are some faults. Besides the title name makes no sense, there are some things I wished the film developed more. TND could have built more upon the media causing mayhem for views (something we can all relate to in 2020). Also, I was saddened to see that Paris Carver's (Teri Hatcher) and Dr. Kaufman's (Vincent Schiavelli) characters were not developed. They could have been much more interesting characters.But, it's a Bond movie. It's meant to be enjoyed more than examined for deep thinking.3.5/5. Good movie but with some flaws. Still a good watch many years after

When you stop and think about it, how twisted would one have to be to think that starting a nuclear war was the best way to become the main purveyor of news in a global media world order? Some of these James Bond flick plot lines just boggle my mind. In fact, just about all of them do, even when some of the ideas are recycled from one picture to another. This time out, media magnate Elliot Carver (Jonathan Pryce) attempts to start a war between China and the Brits, and a kicker that Bond (Pierce Brosnan) never expected is that Carver's wife is one of Bond's former gal pals (Teri Hatcher). In true villainous fashion, Carver is not above eliminating his better half when she gets chummy with Bond once again, thereby adding further incentive to stop the evil mastermind.This film in the series has some of the better action sequences you'll come across in a Bond film, which is saying something because they all feature an assortment of insane chases, explosions and general mayhem. Bond's escape with Chinese agent Wai Lin (Michelle Yeoh) is one of the best action sequences ever, with impeccable timing and magnificent stunt work. It helps that I'm a fan of Michelle Yeoh, but I would have said the same about anybody given the exceptional choreography of that chase scene.It occurs to me that over the course of the past half century of James Bond films that I've generally considered Sean Connery to be my favorite, but now realize that it's more due to the fact that he was the first and the one I can relate to best as being there when the franchise began. But I've got to say, this Pierce Brosnan fellow is a pretty smooth operator himself, and might actually have a leg up on some of the old timers like Connery and Moore. I'm about half way through watching all the Bond pictures in order, and this one could be a keeper.

Tomorrow Never Dies is another great Bond film that's suitably thrilling, action packed and fun, even if it doesn't do anything new. Pierce Brosnan is a perfect James Bond once again and Michelle Yeoh is definitely one of the best Bond girls. Jonathan Pryce is fantastic as a reliably over the top villain. Roger Spottiswoode's direction is great with some impressively shot action sequences. The music by David Arnold is really good and the song by Sheryl Crow is excellent.

There are two things that appeal to me in the latest James Bond installment. Pierce as James Bond the very suave, sophisticated and incredibly good looking spy and Michele Yeoh.  It was nice to see a Bond girl who could really fight, even better than Bond himself who seems to run away from trouble rather than Yeoh who seemed to attract it.  Teri Hatcher was a waste of space, it was a poor role, made worse because she was in it.  Jonathan Pryce was a great villain as the media mogul, was he based on anyone in particular?  I think So!  The product placement was a bit much, although i'm sure it provided most of the funding for the film.  Bonds gadgets were great but the story was a bit stupid.  I guess they are a little stuck for ideas since the Cold War ended.  Still it was fun to watch.

Coming off the heels of "GoldenEye", "Tomorrow Never Dies" always felt to me like a by-the-numbers OO7 entry. the filmmakers know what we've come to expect from a Bond film and it confidently delivers: high-end extravagance, globe-hopping, explosions, lots of shooting. And it's fairly methodical in that respect. even the quips are businesslike. And while we're talking about "GoldenEye", Bond is much less of a precise gunman; here, he just picks a direction and sprays. It's probably nitpicking, but that's always jumped out at me.Brosnan's still great, but it's his fellow actors that get the shaft. Michelle Yeoh's a Hong Kong badass who's always getting saved, and Jonathan Bryce is playing a media tycoon bent on world domination. Sure, he's mean about it, but c'mon, Bond's fighting Rupert Murdoch. It's lame! Not really a bad movie, but also pretty forgettable.5/10