The whole setup of this movie is to make cash. From the beginning the movie just looks overproduced. When I tuned in I even thought it was some kind of commercial, and I was right because this whole movie is basically a advertisement for motorbikes. The way a sign at the start reads "cars suck", the comments throughout the film "thats why I hate 4 wheels!". Its pretty obvious, even though you can't really take stuff like that serious.There are a lot of errors in this film as well, but what I didn't like about this film is that it focuses too much on the bikes and vehicles. Believe me when I say that this has nothing else to offer then people racing against each other with a very thin plot about a guy who gets framed for a murder he didn't commit. Thats basically the entire premise of this movie, so if you are not into bikes and cars (yes those people exist) then you can scratch this movie from your list now.One aspect that was not that bad was the use of CGI to create a kind of hyperdrive-feeling during some of the driving/chase scenes. But again, this feels like a bike-commercial quickly. Hell, they could paste a Yamaha-logo at the end of a driving-sequence in Torque and there you go; a perfect TV-commercial.The characters also are nothing different from the typical Hollywood-stuff, and they are just as thin as the plot they are representing. The acting could be worse, but the dialog is the most awful and laughable tripe you will ever hear. If bikes are your life and you always wanted something like Fast and the Furious but with bikes then give this a try, if you want a good movie then just avoid this.

In reviewing the incredible annoying House of the Dead, I wrote, 'Why flirt with the concept of overkill when you can make it say 'whose your daddy?' Torque does not flirt with overkill; Torque *is* overkill's daddy, and it was fun. Just a few hours before I watched Scary Movie 3 and that film barely managed to summon a chuckle from me. Torque had me in stitches before the first sixty-seconds were up. After years of watching 'serious' films with ridiculously over the top chase sequences (especially lately), finally a movie comes along and puts them all in their place. I have waited a long time for a racing-movie to recognize its own lameness and just (knowingly) go for all the over-the-top stunts it can possibly collect in a loosely strung together plot about a bunch of stereotyped misfits no one really cares about.As stated above, the key was the fact this film does not take itself seriously. Take for example the MTV quick-cut commercial editing style, its overly colorful nature in sets and props, the comic-book-ish camera angles, the overused CG for impossible camera/bike moves, and the lighting which left the high-contrast shadows in mid-day. Want more? How 'bout when a bike speeds past a road sign, making it do a Looney Toonsesque-spin, and if you look carefully you can see the words 'Cars Suck?'Everything perfectly matched the goal this film set out to hit, which is basically a tongue-in-cheek XBox game on the silver screen so commenting on the characters and plot seems virtually pointless. It's about as well developed as most action films-characters and plot serve enough purpose to get the bikes from chase scene A to chase scene B while poking fun at characters/lines from other racing films. No more no less.I personally loved Torque. Would I recommend it to friends, family, or Joe-Shmoe who happens to pass me by in the video store? Well . . . for those who watch films with an anal eye and point out, 'That's not a logical plot point. That defies the laws of physics. That's the single stupidest thing I've ever seen in cinema?' No. Heck no. Don't even pick up the box. However, for those who can watch a film where the comedy lay not in punch lines rather in the style -- a film that's a celebration of all things lame in all of cinema's over-glorified chase scenes? Have a blast and join in with Torque's mockery of the genre.

There are bad movies and then there are painful movies. Then there's Torque which very well may have defined a new term of "bad".For those previous comments who argue that this is a B-Movie and that viewers should "lighten up" - you need to look up your definitions. A B movie is low budget. This was obviously not low budget. I would have to lighten up to the degree of being an overexposed photograph of the kid from Powder to even watch another minute of this film again.There is something about cult or campy flicks that is difficult to explain. On paper or at face value a campy movie can be bad but there's a sense of "fun" in it. You can watch Faster Pussycat Kill Kill and think that they actually had fun filming it AND screening it. You watch Torque and you think that on day 33 of the shoot it must have been painful beyond belief for the crew to answer their alarm clocks.Torque doesn't work in ANY labeling of film. It isn't low budget. It doesn't feel campy. It isn't even funny bad. Unless the real life actors are complete idiots in real life they must have been downright embarrassed by this. It paid their bills though.There is ZIP for any sort of conversation that even mildly could be construed as entertaining. The editing is a total MTV hyperkenetic ADD disaster. The stunts are neither even remotely plausible or interesting. The love interest scenario was as cliché as possible. Ice Cube couldn't act his way out of a styrofoam cup in any movie previously and it still shows.I feel that this movie was literally a physical challenge to watch. Around the midway point I felt like I had just free climbed Devil's Tower. Perhaps I lost a few years of my life from the physical exhaustion this movie delivered to my body.On the upside though - I feel like after having watched this movie I could watch any 9 hour insurance seminar without batting an eye. After viewing Torque, I would rather watch someone trying to start their lawn mower for 3 hours on local access cable.

I realize that this is one of those man movies that was never meant to make any sense and whose target demographic is fourteen-year-old boys. However, my canary in the coal mine in these situations is my husband. If he finds one of these films unwatchable, then it truly is bad, and not just so bad it is good. This was the case with "Torque". I tried to appreciate the stunts and the occasional humor that did work such as the truck from "Duel" still chasing Dennis Weaver after all these years, but it just can't compensate for a lame plot and dialogue that sounds like it was written by the reincarnation of Ed Wood. I think a somewhat rearranged quote from "Billy Madison", another silly man's movie that I actually enjoy if I'm in the mood for it, is most appropriate at this point: "At no point in your rambling, incoherent (movie) were you even close to anything that could be considered a rational thought. Everyone in this room is now dumber for having (watched) it. I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul."

I never miss the chance to see movies for free and having friends that work in the theatre, I see a ton of movies (but pay for the ones I enjoyed). The other night I got to see Torque. I didn't expect much with this movie and couldn't wait at the chance to heckle it. But when it started, it was as if a blast wave of crap hit my face while my mouth was open. I was blinded, and had a bad taste in my mouth. Now I don't enjoy a lot of movies out there (because I want to be a filmmaker and know I can do better) but sometimes that one movie comes along and makes you wonder, "people REALLY enjoy this?" Whats next from the producers of this film, "2 Torque'd"? This movie is a definate case of STYLE over substance. I can deal with crappy movies made from novels, video games and other media but I can't deal with crappy movies that are defecated out of the blue. This movie made my mind sad and now I need to go watch some BOONDOCK SAINTS to feel better.

I would have given another star for the film's cinematography and attempted special effects. Those are the peaks. Now for the valleys,which are deep. The film just hacked me off too much to give it another star. Why? Just about everything else was too stupid, cliché, unrealistic, trendy and meaningless. After watching the first 15 minutes of this "turd with handlebars", I wanted punch every character in the face. I can't imagine real people acting so arrogant and pretentious and living to tell the tale. And as usual, Ice Cube puts on his patented "constant anger" face. And the comical one-liners put The Fast And The Furious to shame. Is this acting, or just another means to a Hollywood paycheck? Probably the latter. If this film is meant to parody the genre, then the parody part must have been used for toilet paper. If it is to be taken seriously, then it should be flushed down the toilet the producers sat on when they thought this one up. MTV would be proud of this attempt to further spread mindless, hypnotizing pop culture to the masses. Jaime Pressley is a hot one in her kinky attire, but I'd still rather sniff dog turds than sit through this crap. Terrible.

A lot of people think that I love the "Charlie's Angels" movies because I think they're "so bad, they're good", when that's actually not true. On the contrary, I think they are pretty smart (especially in the precise way they constantly reference pop culture in clever and heartfelt ways). And yes, they are totally silly and unrealistic and goofy, but what I like about that is that it's completely intentional (which is what most people don't get, and is so obvious to me)."Torque", on the other hand, is a perfect example of a movie that is TRULY so bad, it's good. Or at least enjoyable in a surreal, lunatic sort of way. This movie seriously doesn't have a brain in its head.In every sense a B-movie, it most resembles those gleefully exploitive, low-budget movies that Roger Corman and Russ Meyer made decades ago, where biker gangs did battle with their switchblade-toting girlfriends at their side. And it's every bit as silly as it sounds, which could be either good news or bad news for you, depending on what kind of filmgoer you are.
Personally, I knew it was crap the whole time, but still had a blast watching it. The story is ridiculous and the dialogue is ludicrous (these characters exist in a world where when a girl says "Nice bike", the guy says "Nice a**" and she LIKES it). But I cannot fully resist a movie in which two improbably beautiful biker chicks stare each other down on their bikes in a photogenic, deserted alleyway (both of them in front of huge product logos, for extra giggles), one of them yells "Bring it on, b****!", the other whips out a switchblade, and then they charge! As a classic B-movie enthusiast, I offer no apologies for having fun watching a scene like that.
It's really not all bad, either. Martin Henderson and Monet Mazur have some genuinely nice and tender scenes together, and the great, color-conscious cinematography makes everything look so shiny you could eat off the screen. Jamie Pressly is an absolute hoot as the evil biker chick, and Adam Scott scores some laughs as a conceited F.B.I. agent.Also, several of the action scenes are pretty amazing, once you get over the idea that this movie is obviously not taking place on planet Earth, but rather some video game universe or a 12 year-old's dream.
I wish Ice Cube was off doing the kinds of good movies he used to make (like "Three Kings", the original "Friday", "Boyz N The Hood", "Higher Learning", "Ghosts Of Mars"...), but he contributes some laughs as one of the heavies here. I do wish he had changed his expression at least once, though. You know the one where he grits his teeth and curls his upper lip so that he look like he hates your guts and steam is about to come out of his ears? That's the one that he has throughout the entire movie.
Basically, I'm not gonna fight for this movie or anything, I realize it's of essentially no value. I'll just say that it made it easy for me to shut off my brain and I enjoyed it, and maybe you will too. I give "Torque" 3 stars the same way I would give "Switchblade Sisters" 3 stars. They're awful and cheesy, but a hell of a lot of fun, and that counts for something, doesn't it?

Warning! Spoilers ahead! They ride their sport-bikes through the desert, or at least that what the producers (and *very* unsuccessfully, I might add) want you to think they did. Which tells me that the producers think the audience are a bunch of idiots.There are two skinny girls *fighting* with their bikes, making the impression that the bikes weigh about 10 pounds each. Words escape me.Bikes on a train? Wheelies between the seats? Really?High speed driving without helmets? Again, really? You know that fly that hit your eye in 130 mph? And burst your eyeball? Good luck with all that.As for the ending, with a jet-bike in city traffic, there are no words for how moronic that was.To top it off: Fat-boy Ice-cube on a bike? Really? REALLY? I don't think so. At best he could drive a 15hp chopper around town in about 20 mph so all his "bling-bling" won't fall off. Be careful to not get that too-long basketball-shirt, or the shoelaces from your untied shoes, stuck in the chain. It wouldn't be pretty. And the rest of his "cool-boy rapper-biker-gang" was just as believable as that 300mph-through-city-traffic-wearing-no-helmet ending. This is just another example of what's wrong with todays "movies". Who cares about realism and a plot, as long as it's "cool" and "awesome", and the actors curses a lot and makes degrading comments about women, and wears a lot of "bling-bling". It's not even bad, it's not even laughable, but it sure brings on a whole new level of stupid. What a waste of money, time and resources.

I liked this movie.  There was nothing special about it at all. Everything looked fake and most of the stunts were beyond believable.  Who Cares?  It is a fun movie that not only pokes fun at itself but at the makers own other movie Fast and Furious.  I thought this was a fun watch and all the votes seem to be coming from people who were looking for a serious movie with great acting.  Why?  You can tell by previews this is not that kind of film. This is a great way to just entertain yourself.  Go see it soon.

Upon seeing this film, the only way that I could believe that someone paid to produce this mockery of cinema was as part of a nefarious plot to create a new torture device for enemies of the English-speaking world; or as some diabolical psychological experiment reminiscent of the Auschwitz atrocities; or perhaps as a reminder to would-be filmmakers that the laws of physics cannot be excluded while trying to achieve a suspension of disbelief.However, as it turns out, some people actually liked this movie. Now, normally I would be respectful of the tastes of others, given that I am a fan of free will and the right to choose one's own passions. However, I am firmly convinced that the people who liked this film are either production studio plants, or insanely moronic individuals who shouldn't be allowed access to the internet, or folks using mass quantities of psychotropic substances.Consequentially, given the problem of America's waning educational system and plummeting test scores, I am convinced that this film should be used as a gene-pool filter. Given the number of positive reviews and high votes, I believe that people who like this movie should be singled out for castration or hysterectomy, and this in turn should allow for a major increase in intelligence throughout America.

This is the worst "bike" movie ever. This even surpasses Biker Boyz. Why cant the movie industry realize that all bikers are not Gun totin,Drug dealin, murdering gang members? The stunts are silly. Stoppies into trees, Fighting on bikes at over 120 mph, jumping onto a train?  The sportbikes "Magically" turn into bodywork wearing dirtbikes. Please give us some reality. We are not all ignorant, Some of us actually ride bikes.

Every now and then, a critic like me needs a break from all the high quality (and usually depressing) movies.  This one is just mindless fun.  Don't know why this is like 50 spots away from being the worst movie.  It was a good watch.  Sure the quality is so bad that it won't win any awards, but it was fun.  So I'm not gonna even bother to say whats bad.  Just have fun for once. :)5/10Quality: 0/10 Entertainment: 10/10 Replayable: 8/10

Normally when viewing a film, I like to think I'm more capable of a suspension of disbelief than most people. If the action is tight, and the screenwriters and directors at least attempt to compensate for holes in the story...I'm game. But with this film, "suspension of disbelief" just doesn't seem to cover it. Before I go any further, let me simply say that I didn't bother with seeing 2 Fast 2 Furious. The first film in that franchise sucked enough, and I just didn't see the point in viewing the sequel. On that note, let me say that I shall make no comparison of this film to that. Now, as to the adjustment of a commonly overused plot line to this supposed world of underground biker gangs - chalk it up to the Hollywood producers doing anything for a buck. The biggest problem that I had with this film is the very thing it touted so highly: the intense action. Women fighting with motorcycle kung-fu...guys brawling on motorcycles traveling at over 200 mph through L.A. traffic...Ice Cube landing a motorcycle on top of a moving train. Um...yeah, whatever. While it may seem cool to pimply-face thirteen-year-olds who spank it to e-pics of Jaime Pressly when mommy and daddy aren't home, this film couldn't possibly be taken seriously by anyone with an IQ over 85.