The first Toy Story was largely confined to little Andy's room and his dreaded neighbor's house.  When we pick up the story in "Toy Story 2," Buzz Lightyear is in outer space where he meets his arch-nemesis, Emperor Zurg. In a cheeky opening, the rules devised by Lasseter and his Pixar staff are laid out:  There are no rules.Buzz flies through caverns, enters Zurg's stronghold, and gets defeated (gasp) by the evil Zurg!  Is this the end of our hero?....Nah, it's just Rex playing the Buzz Lightyear video game and losing.  It is Yard Sale Day and the toys are understandably tense.  You see, Yard Sale Day means that the old toys go out to the sale.  Woody has reason to be nervous, he's starting to show his age.  He's got a ripped arm thanks to Andy's dog, whom we got introduced to at the end of the first Toy Story.  Sure enough, one of the toy troop gets taken. Poor Weezie the Penguin was laid forgotten on Andy's bookcase and he promptly gets put in the sale box.  It's up to Woody to save him, which he does.  But he gets picked up by a greedy toy-collector named Al and taken to Al's Toy Barn.  Seems Woody is pretty valuable and Al wants to sell him to a toy auction.  Can Buzz and friends save him in time?Ho-hum, sounds like a harmless little kid's movie, doesn't it?  But remember Lassetter and the rules, or lack thereof?  Well, things take quite a poignant turn.In a magical sequence that's an homage to Howdy-Doody, Woody learns that he was part of an old 1950s children's puppet show along with some other toys from the show, the salty Prospector Pete (Kelsey Grammar), Jessie the Yodelling Cowgirl (played brilliantly by Joan Cusack), and Woody's faithful steed.  As Pete tells Woody, toy collecting means immortality.  Woody and his new friends will be preserved in cases for admiring eyes to faun over. Woody's days with Andy are numbered.  This point is further emphasized by a heartbreaking song sung by Sarah Maclachlan that tells the story of how Jessie's owner abandoned her because, well, she grew up.  Pete says, "Do you really think Andy will take you to his high school graduation or to college?"  Talk about a bind.  Does Woody go back to Andy and have fleeting fun or stay preserved in predictable permanence?Meanwhile, Andy's gang have their own awakenings to paths not taken.  Mr. Potato Head sees temptation incarnate in some friendly Barbies ("I'm a married spud!  I'm a married spud!") and Buzz comes face to face with a new Buzz Lightyear figure....who turns out to be as self-delusional as he was. You mean, they're all like this?!  And the knockout punch: Buzz faces his mortal foe, Emperor Zurg and confronts a shattering secret.  Hint:  Think "Star Wars."Pixar has come a long way since the first "Toy Story."  The computer animation is absolutely amazing as the toys have much more dimension and realism in the details than the original.  Once again everyone is terrific, especially Cusack who injects soul in the spunky and slighted Jessie. References abound, from "2001" to "Star Wars."  Plus some inside jokes concerning Toy Story's lack of merchandise production also make their way. Even a sly suggestive joke or two slips in.  Hint:  Watch Buzz's wings at the end.I cannot say enough about one sequence in particular with Buzz and the gang crossing the street.  Lasseter directs this scene with great skill and comic placement.  I was in tears at this point, and this was a "kid's" movie!But, as with the first one, what really got me engaged was the story, as affecting a story as I have seen live or animated.  If I can make an outlandish statement, Toy Story seems to be reaching for something akin to the "Star Wars Trilogy" or even the "Godfather Trilogy."  Not so much for epicness, but for how the story gets deeper and richer as it goes along. "Star Wars" was an entertaining space opera, "Empire Strikes Back" was a mythic, dark, operatic chapter in a saga.  "Godfather" was an exciting and classically-influenced masterwork, "Godfather Part II" was a quiet, dark, character study that reveals Michael's moral bankruptcy and the decline of the Corleone empire.Lasseter's plan intrigues me.  With "Toy Story", the plot revolved around a buddy picture that showed the bond between an old toy and new toy, and that being a toy is the best thing in the world.  This bittersweet second chapter addresses what happens after the toys aren't needed anymore.  What happens now?  Where will I go?  Will I be loved again?  I wonder if with the third, if there is one, we'll see what makes a toy timeless.  What separates a Woody or Buzz from Rex the Dinosaur or Slinky the Dog?  And I wonder what the ultimate fate of our friends actually is.  I'm hoping they get passed on to Andy's children and his grandchildren, throughout all the generations. I wouldn't worry about Buzz and Woody, though.  They're already timeless.

More thematically compelling and with better action set-pieces, Toy Story 2 is a sequel that is just as good as the original - and one that isn't afraid to go to the more emotional side of storytelling.

Which should be impossible, as the original is pretty amazing. Extremely impressive and always entertaining.

Toy Story 2 is just not as funny or as clever as the first Toy Story. There seems to be lots of filler (ie. needless action and chases) and not enough witty interaction between the characters. Even the voice performances seem to be a little lackluster. Still, I laughed out loud more than a few times and was only slighty bored in the middle section.

Well it's a sequel, and I watched with trepidation, and glad to say I enjoyed every minute of this, it was good to see the voices of all the characters still voiced by the original actors/actresses, as well as welcoming new characters 'Stinky Pete the Prospector' and the Round-up gang, as well as a nemesis for Buzz !  Some very 'tounge in cheek' movie gags (Jurassic Park and Star Wars to name but two).  I would hope in years to come to see more quality productions like this.This will be a family favourite again.

Hugely entertaining sequel, that lacks its predecessors compact and harmonious storyline as well as its dark subtext. Instead, we've got our toy friends on an epic rescue mission through town, along with some all too obvious pop culture references - another Star Wars parody, please?! - and sightly forced action moments.But it's still a good movie, full of funny one-liners and meticulous care for detail. The characters - old and new - are as amiable as ever, and here and there Pixar is still able to achieve moments of great beauty and wit.7 out of 10 double Buzzes

Not too often that a sequel is as entertaining as the original but Toy Story 2 manages to achieve this rare feat.We get to spend more time with the characters we developed so much affection for in the original.The Toy Story saga has found a way to create special moments of magic that have touched a lot of people over the years.

This film is definitely a pleasure and a joy to see, a very well done sequel.  I wouldn't be surprised if it would spawn yet another sequel, raising the bar even more for computer animation, such as this film has done.  Toy Story 2 looks even more lifelike and realistic than its original, I found myself several times 'forgetting' that it was computer animation. Definitely a must see for all ages.

It is very rare when an excellent movie is followed by an excellent sequel. Toy Story 2 has done just that. The blending of wonderful animation artistry, terrific writing and great voice overs continues thanks to Pixar. Lots of films claim to be appropriate for all ages and rarely are. I'd recommend this movie to adults with no children! Toy Story 2 is that clever.
Toy Story 2 has a great time making fun of itself and other movies such as Star Wars and Jurassic Park. The humor is constant and is simply right on. As Toy Story was a buddy picture, Toy Story 2 pokes fun of commando rescue films, as well as computer games and barbies. But as with Toy Story this is a film with a heart highlighting not only the friendship of the original group of toys but adding some interesting new ones too.Toy Story 2 is an escape into a rich and wonderful fantasy world. It is well worth a visit.

There are few sequels that can equal or even surpass its original, and for an animated feature, perhaps Toy Story 2 is the first of its kind that didn't end up going direct to video. I'm unsure why I hadn't caught this in the theatres, given that I've thoroughly enjoyed the first Toy Story. I've taken 7 years to finally watch this gem, and of course, to include myself into the legions of Pixar fans out there who have watched every single animated feature they produced.Toy Story 2 remains the only sequel that Pixar put out, though I'm rooting for The Incredibles to make another appearance on the silver screen. Bringing back its stellar voice cast like Tom Hanks and Tim Allen, and favourite characters that have endeared themselves to us, I'm thrilled that there is so much more story that can be told of our favourite toys in Andy's room.What worked, at least for me, is that the story and characters appealed to the child inside. I own quite a number of toys as a kid, and yes, I outgrew them, although most of them are still stored in boxes somewhere around the house. Perhaps some of them are small collector's item in their own right, and as a child I did wonder if the toys do come alive to wreck havoc around the room before they retire in time and clean up before I wake up.Of course toys do not come to life (or do they?) but here in this sequel, the exploration of the friendship theme takes on a different dimension when Woody finds himself with other toys from the same collection as he is - a cowgirl Jessie, his trusty steed Bullseye, and a prospecting character known as Stinky Pete. The dilemma he faces is whether to cast aside his constant fear of Andy abandoning him for good, and opt for life with his new found family in some museum somewhere, where he'll be appreciated for many moons to come, or to return with Buzz and his friends for the life he has grown so accustomed to.The adaptation to change, loyalty, abandonment, friendship - a lot of themes for a children's movie, but that again is the appeal of Toy Story, that it can be viewed at different levels, for a child who can enjoy the animation and the story at one level, and for adults to reminisce and enjoy it on another. By deftly handling the different themes, and appealing to different segments of audiences with the same movie, Pixar exhibited exactly why they're top dogs in this field.As always, the music and animation are excellent, and given that I'm watching this now and found it enjoyable, I think they have a film that can stand the test of time. I hear of rumours of a third Toy Story movie, and if that were true, I'd say bring it on!

When Woody (Tom Hanks) is stolen by a toy collector, Buzz (Tim Allen) and his friends vow to rescue him, but Woody finds the idea of immortality in a museum tempting.Clearly the "Toy Story" series is the crown jewel of the Pixar Studios. As of 2015, they have had three films and they may be making more (which is a big gamble, but they are three for three thus far). Some people have argued that this film is better than the first film. They may be right. It is at least as good.The added "villain" of the toy collector (Wayne Knight) was a great idea, and gives Woody a back story that was missing. Was it necessary? Maybe not. But it brings these characters to life, and shows us that life exists beyond Andy's bedroom. Such a grand adventure for such small heroes.