Y'know, I always suspected that my toys were coming to life when I wasn't looking! In Andy's Room, his toys lead lives of noisy desperation come every birthday and Christmas - no one wants to be one-upped by a new addition to the toy box. Nominally led by Cowboy Woody (there's a Brokeback joke in there just waiting to happen), Mr. Potato Head, Rex the Dinosaur, Ham the piggybank, Bo Peep, Slinky the dog and a smattering of other playthings go about their toy business of playing checkers, hanging with the hometoys and "plastic corrosion awareness meetings," until Andy's birthday party, when they gather expectantly around a transistor radio, listening to the reports of their toy soldier troops "in the field" (downstairs watching Andy's gift-opening), hoping that no gift will be exciting enough to cause Andy to neglect *them.* There is. His name is Buzz Lightyear, Space Ranger.Directed by Pixar mainstay John Lasseter, with the voice talents of Tom Hanks (as Woody), Don Rickles, John Ratzenberger (forever Cliff from *Cheers*), R. Lee Ermey, Annie Potts, Jim Varney and Tim Allen (as Buzz), *Toy Story* is that *rara avis* that succeeds on all levels – in its animation, storyline, character development, its messages of friendship and self-realization and, most importantly, its entertainment value. The fact that this is a cartoon (or animated feature – just what DO we call this new wave of computer-generated movies?) is incidental. Which makes the slightly dodgy animation (of the "real people") irrelevant - it gets the point across with or without the technological finesse.The "Disney Movie" has become synonymous with maudlin messages, redneck fundamentalism, anachronistic family values, boneheaded parents, smart-mouthing youngsters, too-hip-to-be-smart teens and insufferable pets. Though Disney's tyrannical umbrella overarches this film's production studio, Pixar Animation, *Toy Story* somehow avoided all trace of Disney's craven hand, which is doubly surprising, considering this is Pixar's first feature length film, after years of experimentation. Right outa the gate and right outa the field.Sure, there are "messages," but they are heartfelt, rather than maudlin (Woody tells Buzz during Buzz's greatest depression that it matters not what Buzz thinks of himself, what makes him important is what his owner, Andy, thinks of him); there are emotional segments, which are truly heartbreaking, rather than cheesy (when Buzz's escape attempt lands him with a broken arm, proving he is Not A Flying Toy, the lyric, "Clearly I will go sailing no more," launches a thousand hankies); and the portrayal of Andy's family was Pixar's triumphal achievement. Boldly contravening Disney's *idée fixe* of the 1950's nuclear family and Norman Rockwell fantasies, one of the many incarnations of a modern-day family is presented: a single mother with two kids, who are neither geniuses nor monsters, just normal children; happy to visit Pizza Planet and disappointed when favorite toys are lost.Buzz – who believes he is a real life space ranger on a mission to save the universe - become Andy's favorite toy over Woody. The funny thing is: though Buzz believes he is real, he still adheres to toy protocol of "playing inert" when humans are in the area. (Maybe it's instinct?) When he mentions saving a toy from Sid, the vicious boy next door, how does he propose to do it if he is to adhere to the inert protocol? Buzz's ingenuousness regarding his role as a toy infuriates Woody to the point of attempted toy-assassination. Through a concatenation of accidents, both he and Buzz become lost and must use teamwork, trust and ingenuity to beat their path back to Andy, which finds them ensconced in scorchingly funny vignettes (Buzz fastening himself in an over-sized seatbelt; both falling in with green, three-eyed aliens; Buzz hyperventilating as "Mrs. Nesbitt"). During a climactic rocket ride, the callback line, "This is not flying - this is falling with style," simply seals this movie's greatness.At least I now have a plausible explanation as to why my toys always got lost: after going about their toy business, they would just go inert anywhere they happened to be, instead of paying attention to their master's infallible toy filing system….

Though I am not a big fan of computer animation,I have to give the folks at Pixar credit.This brand of animation is nothing short of brilliant.The attention to detail,such as eye and body movement is quite remarkable.Computers allow them to make their characters as close to human like as possible,something we have never seen in traditional hand drawn animation,though the latter will always be the closest to my heart.Combine this excellence with a genuinely good story idea and a top notch voice cast and the result is good family entertainment.It's obvious that the people at Pixar are not only caring perfectionists when it comes to film making,but they care about our kids,something rarely seen today.Highly recommended for any home library.

Andy's toys live a reasonable life of fun and peace, their only worries are birthdays and Christmases, when new toys could easily replace those already there.  One such birthday Andy's top toy, Woody the cowboy, finds himself in direct competition with Andy's new Buzz Lightyear doll.  When rivalries boil over Woody tries to hide Buzz down the side of the bed but accidentally pushes him out the window, the other tops expel Woody, and he leaves with no choice but to find Buzz and return him to the house.  But with only two days before Andy moves house, time is of the essence.Given how often the same mix of animation, wit, jokes and kids humour has been used since Toy Story (Ice Age, Monsters Inc, Bugs Life) it is easy to forget how refreshing it was when it first came out.  I have just watched it again and it is dating a little in comparison to more recent twists on the formula.  It seems each one has to be sharper and have more references etc in the background.  However it is still very funny and deserves praise for being the first of a successful formula.The plot is simple but effective and actually has genuine drama and excitement to it.  The main story is fun but the degree of character development is what really shores it up.  The conflict between Buzz and Woody is taken deeper than this and, when confronted by the truth of his status as a toy, Buzz's turmoil is very real as opposed to him being a cartoon character and nothing more.  Despite the two strong leads there is a real depth in the support cast.  They may not actually have that many lines, but they have all the funniest lines.  Most of the `adult' wit comes from the Potato Head, dinosaur, the pig and slinky dog.  They are funny and are very well used.  In fact the majority of this humour and plot will go right over kids heads.Looking back on it, I do feel a cynical edge on it in so much as this film must really have helped sales of the toy companies in the film.  It's hard not to see the marketing department standing behind this film rubbing their hands.  However the actual product is so wonderfully fun that I forgot this quickly.  The voice work is excellent and the characters match the actors. Hanks is good as Woody and Allen has a good B-movie type voice for Buzz. Varney, Ratzenberger, Ermey (doing his usual), Rickles and others are all really good in the support roles and, probably, come out as the favourite characters for adults.Overall this is a classic film that will appeal to adults as much as to kids (if not more).  A good plot and a really sharp script make the already short running time fly by.  The only downside is that your kids will want you to go out and buy the damn things!

With the wonderful collaboration of Pixar and Disney, who as of 2013 have given us some of the most visually impressive and wonderful movies ever made. "Toy Story" was the go to film of many childhoods (Including my own), and brought CGI movies into the mainstream with stunning promises & confidence.How things came to be, Lucasfilm sold a portion of their effects company to computer giant Apple (That inevitably became Pixar), who would go on to strike a deal with Disney. Director John Lasseter had lost his job to Disney for pitching the idea of this story, and after the successful development stage he managed to gain back the confidence of Disney, and alas the rest is history.I bring this story up just to reflect how far we've matured in terms of story telling & technology. The idea of adults giving kids morals & entertainment through animation, wonderfully echoes that of what Walt Disney set out to do so many decades ago. Toy Story has aged extraordinarily well for the first CGI film ever made. Held together mostly for its impeccable casting, I feel ashamed now 20+ years old and much more experienced in movies to say I still look at Tom Hanks & Tim Allen, and almost immediately think "Toy Story". As well as the stellar supporting cast, its visuals are fantastic and the music is timeless. Writers include a young Joss Whedon, and with a rotten antagonist by the name of Sid, makes this movie just as entertaining now as it was then.Final Verdict: It's hard to find any flaw with such a beloved movie, especially the one now most adults will first show their kids. It has everything to move and touch you deeply, and to believe a bunch of 0's and 1's flying around in digital space can do that, "Toy Story" is that proof. 10/10.

Toy Story is not only the best Disney film because it has the best story and the best animation, but also because of the excellent actors chosen to provide the voices of the animals. The casting was perfect from top to bottom, and the movie provides an excellent adventure story about friendship and loyalty that keeps you engrossed until the nail-biting climax.
Tom Hanks and Tim Allen provided excellent voices for Woody and Buzz Lightyear -their performances alone are one of the biggest things that made this such a spectacular movie. Besides that, though, you have the excellent story that is not only noteworthy because it has never really been told from this perspective before, but also because it was just told so well. All of the characters in the film are very well developed and all have appropriate and effective actors chosen to provide their voices. And of course, who could forget the revolutionary animation! The computer animation used for this movie not only made it startlingly realistic but also opened up tons of possibilities, and thankfully the filmmakers chose to explore these possibilities. There are dozens of things that are hidden in the woodwork throughout the film, as well as in the songs – note, for example, the subtle playing of the Indiana Jones theme song in the scene where Woody knocks Buzz out the window with the desk lamp.
Toy Story is by far the best Disney film ever made, it's pretty much perfect. It's adventurous, it's exciting, it's entertaining, it's good for the whole family, it's got great characters, story, and plot, and above all, it's fun.

Toy Story is a good movie. It has good characters and a decent story. But is it really worth the hype? Yes, it's the first fully computer animated movie ever made and that's very impressive. For that reason alone, it will stand out in history. But I certainly never really thought it was the brilliant classic everyone else thought it was. Its animation is great but the story suffers from major pacing issues. There are entire moments of the movie right in the middle that bore me every time and don't stop boring me until I get to the film's climax, when it picks up again. A lot of trimming should have been done in the middle. Toy Story is good but its sequels are a lot better. So is it bad? No. But it's not brilliant. If this were 2-D, I doubt it would receive this high praise.

The first feature length Pixar film and the first feature film to be made entirely in computer animated imagery Toy Story was a milestone in film history. But apart from it's massive impact, Toy Story is still a really great film. The toys in the bedroom of Andy Davis (John Morris) are alive (when Andy doesn't look) and seem to have their own community set up. The most popular toy being Andy's favorite toy, a toy cowboy named Woody (Tom Hanks). But that might change this birthday when Andy get's a new toy named Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) a toy spaceman who still thinks that he's a real spaceman. To add on to that Woody takes an immediate disliking to Buzz because Andy seems to play with him more now and all the other toys go the same route. Well Woody and Buzz inadvertently end up in the house of Sid Phillips (Erik Von Detten) the destructive next door neighbor who is pretty much the type of person that would put a turtle on it's shell for fun. So Woody and Buzz have to overcome their differences and get back to Andy's house before he moves. This film's story is great and intriguing. The comedy here is also great. The dialog between Woody and Buzz is very funny. I definitely recommend this movie to anyone who hasn't seen it. It's the birthplace of Pixar who over the years have proved themselves worthy of the praise given by adults and children alike.

What a wonderful integration of classic toys and a superb plot. It's a new height in animation (though things have gotten even more impressive long since). The voicings of Tim Allen as Buzz and Tom Hanks as Woody, with their inherent connection to their toy beings, with an incredible supporting cast, make this a romp to end all romps. There is a strain between the realities of the world and the fact that even though they are sentient beings, they are still toys. Buzz has lights that flash but he can't really fly. Woody has the ludicrous string on his back that allows him to deliver his catch phrases. Then there is the neighborhood villain, Sid, who is a maimer and destroyer of toys. There is the quest for the mishandled and lost. And a finale that is worthy of everything that has been set up. What really makes this work is the "humanity" of the characters. There is love and a true connection among them. If you have never seen this, it is worth every minute.

Just in case you were also wondering what happened to all the toys that went missing when you were a kid, the answer is clear: They escaped."Toy Story" is the kind of children's movie adults can enjoy just as much, because it very cleverly mines deep deposits of nostalgia from the memory banks. That may be the reason the 1990s bedroom of young Andy is populated by playthings of the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. If Andy was a real boy of his time, there would be a computer and a TV/Nintendo, and not much else.The voicings of the various toys add to the enjoyability. Tom Hanks was the biggest star of the moment when "Toy Story" came out, and he works with that likeability by creating a stable center as Woody the cowboy doll. Don Rickles has the screen role of his career (not that "Kelly's Heroes" was Oscar material) as a prickly Mr. Potato Head, while Jim Varney and R. Lee Ermey are standouts in the supporting cast.Tim Allen gives the movie's best performance, as a newfangled toy that takes Woody's place in Andy's heart but can't bring himself to accept that he's just a plastic plaything. It's the role of the story that gives him the best lines ("I don't believe that man has ever been to medical school"), but Allen delivers them with real panache. He more than holds his own, and you kind of see where he took off with that note-perfect William Shatner parody he perfected on screen in the underrated "Galaxy Quest."While this movie's use of computer animation makes it a milestone, it neither represents the most innovative use of the technology or the cleverest Pixar-ated treatment of a story. "A Bug's Life" seems a more worthy apex; that story was funnier, worked better on its own merits, and used the animation to better effect. But given how novel all of this was in 1995, "Toy Story" could have been a lot less thought-through than it was, and still made gobs of money. The fact it is instead invested with real heart, and can be watched and enjoyed today just as easily as when it debuted nearly 10 years ago, is a tribute to the people behind it.I like Randy Newman's music, just not here, and while the animation textures are surprisingly lifelike, there are places, especially with Scud the dog but also with the baby's drool, where it falls short. The story itself gets kind of rote with repeat viewings, though the transition to Sid's bedroom and its sad mutilated toys is a genius moment. So too are the vending machine aliens, who gape in rapt wonder at the judgment of "the claw." If it reached for pathos a little less often, "Toy Story" would be an undeniable classic.As it is, it is very, very good, the kind of film that's only good for children, even (especially?) the inner ones.