Jake(Hawke, innocent yet with some edge) has been on the force for over a year and a half now. He wants to make detective, and that means joining Narcotics. For his titular training day he must impress Alonzo(Washington, simultaneously threatening and charming). He will soon find that this is a cop who crosses the line frequently. Exactly how far is he willing to go?The acting by both leads is amazing. Honestly, for everyone in this. Denzel steals the show, but Ethan still really makes a mark. This is immensely gritty, with many honest looks at what happens in the bad neighborhoods of LA, as told by a screenwriter and director who actually lived there. The authenticity is a huge part of why this is so compelling. With a few exceptions, you really feel like this could happen(there are things that are not very credible. Others have already detailed them, I don't really have anything to add), and it really provokes a discussion of police brutality. Despite an episodic nature, every scene has a distinct purpose in the overall narrative, although for a number of them, you won't realise what it is until later.This contains a lot of strong language, some brutal violence, and a little nudity. I recommend it to everyone who can stomach the contents. 8/10

You all know the scene I'm talking about. Alonzo's monologue against the street that he thought would cooperate with him. That scene. Urgh, genius. A rookie narcotics officer is paired with a more experienced, albeit corrupt, detective for a day of training in the urban streets of Los Angeles. What looks like a semi-professional day on the job turns out to be a nightmare for the rookie. There are a ridiculous amount of positives, but unfortunately there are various negatives that prevents the police drama from being classed as a classic. At its core, this is a character study. A twisted, demented and self-assured detective who may have started out with the right intentions, but gradually becomes corrupted by the streets. The screenplay consistently reaffirms the idea that it is the environment that changes a person. Being adaptable under given scenarios. The depiction of the streets of Los Angeles and the black and white segregation is rather prominent throughout the film's runtime. Yet it feels extremely real. It is the gritty and dark undertone embedded within the narrative that intrigues you and makes you invested in the characters. Speaking of our protagonist(s), Ethan Hawke was sublime as the naive rookie who just wants to help the world, one crime at a time. However, Denzel Washington just owns every scene in what I can only describe as his best performance. His acting was ferocious. Conveying confidence and fear simultaneously. David Ayer's best script (although that's not saying much...) and Antoine Fuqua's best directorial effort. It's just a shame the ending was unsatisfying with too many plot conveniences throughout. What were the chances that the girl they saved at the beginning was the cousin of a Sureño who was going to kill Jake!? Absurdly convenient. Then later we get the craziest overkill of the decade. Bullets galore. Alas, I do find this to be a gripping police drama and Washington's best performance. That's enough for me to highly recommend this.

LAPD narcotics detective Alonzo Harris (Denzel Washington) takes rookie detective Jake Hoyt (Ethan Hawke) on his training day. Alonzo is a harsh spoken street-wise cop pushing the envelop in South Central L.A. Mostly he goes right over the edge.This is all Denzel all the time. It's his relentless power. There's no logic or plot worthy of following. That's not the point of this movie. The audience is Ethan Hawke as he tries at first to submit to the Denzel hurricane. Then we're trying gather our feet in the storm. Finally we have to make a decision about his character. This is a tour-de-force performance from Denzel and nothing less.

I'm not really sure what the point of this movie was, other than to look cool and to give Denzel a badass persona with which to chew the scenery. The characters make reference to the "chess game" going on between them, but it's really a game of kick the can.  They only manage to keep it moving forward one hour, at which point it just could becomes a big checkers endgame, full of black-leather gold-chain-danglin' fury, signifying nothing. This movie pistol whips you with countless racial stereotypes, and F's you up with an anticlimactic, silly ending that would be satisfying only after a hit of PCP-laced dope.  The friends who recommended this to me ought get their own special brand of "street justice".  Garbage.

"Training Day" was a very good movie. I like movies that shove it in your face and make you deal with it...movies like, "Black Hawk Down"...no clichés, no touching moments, just brutal, bitter realism. "Training Day" was such a movie. However, the one thing that made this film really shine was the performance by Mr. Washington. To me, a good actor is someone who just IS a character...if it isn't obvious that they are acting than they are doing a good job. That was the case with Washingon. He just was Alonzo. Every pantomime, every word, every glance was performed masterfully. Did Mr. Washington deserve his Oscar? Absolutely. 200%. Some people say, "not Oscar material" and I must wonder, what film...what performance were they watching?

The most intense ride along ever. Antoine Fuqua directed a wild cop drama like you have never seen before. Dealing with systematic corruption in the police force, crime investigation, drug dealing, bribery, and ethics. Training Day is a visceral sprint into law enforcement. Training Day forces you right into the position of a rookie cop asking yourself what would you honestly do in the same situation. It is brilliant due to David Ayer's clever and complex script alongside Fuqua's innovative and gritty direction. Training Day is timeless thanks to its commentary on police corruption and our contemporary police brutality problem. I think everyone needs to see Training Day. Denzel Washington is the real star as he comes across as the most real and selfish cop ever put on screen. His violence, anger, and ingenuity are met with his display of likability, experience, and results. Washington portrays a man of deeply held convictions that poses as a good cop to fool all those around him. Washington earned that Oscar for real. You will absolutely despise his character by the end. Notably, Ethan Hawke is the everyman rookie cop that we are meant to empathize with from the very first scene. We are along for the ride right by Hawke's side and he plays it wonderfully. From the naive well wisher that does not understand the streets to the honest cop that does the right thing, Hawke pulls off a very relatable performance in Training Day. He plays off of Washington's outgoing psychopath very convincingly down to the last. I like Hawke in Training Day quite a bit. I must mention there are so many neat cameo and supporting roles scattered throughout Training Day. From Scott Glenn, Snoop Dogg, Dr. Dre, Eva Mendes, and Terry Crews. Training Day's cast is wild. Everyone is realistic and feels a part of this horrid world of crime and corruption. In all, Antoine Fuqua did a phenomenal job directing Training Day. It has aged well with the same intensity as when it first released in theaters. Training Day is still shocking and visceral down to the last moment. This is a brutal ride along for the books, but well worth the watch.

Do you take big money from a studio, thus enabling you to hire the actor that could make your movie great, knowing that the studio will make certain script requirements guaranteed to ruin the whole thing?This movie was so bad, but came so close to being so good.  I was thrilled for the first, say, 105 minutes of Training Day.  Then, rather than giving us a shocking ending, which would have been ok, or an ambiguous ending, which would have been better, we are given a cheesy formulaic ending.  Not only that, the last 15 minutes are an assault on the viewer's intelligence. We are required to believe that Hawke's character would give up his weapon, we are hit with a ridiculous coincidence with the wallet, and it is suggested that our hero would know how to use LA's bus system to travel (quickly, another joke) from Boyle Heights to South Central (for those of you not from here, that would not happen).  Then Washington's character leaves Hawke's alive, and...oh forget it, the list just keeps going.But up until that point, I was so impressed.  Hawke's internal struggle was great to watch, and pretty plausible.  Washington, awful as his character was, was a joy to watch.  It was fairly reflective of local issues, coming on the heels of the Rampart police scandal, in which cops in one part of the city (where most of the movie was set) took over the streets, making a huge impact in crime while doing some terrible things.  The action scenes (until the latter moments) were fairly realistic looking and fun to watch.  The character actors in smaller roles (Macy Gray, Snoop Dogg, and especially Cliff Curtis and his friends) were outstanding.  You know, this movie had everything I would have wanted, except for an ending that didn't p*** me off.Go see this movie, but once it moves to the bathtub, feel free to stop.

Denzel Washington shines in this movie about a crooked, burnt-out cop taking on a wide eyed rookie as his partner, proving once again that he is one of the best actors of his generation. His performance is incredible and he commands the screen every time he is in a scene. The suburban streets never seemed so real, depressing and raw showing us that maybe the ones designated to make a community safer and more prosperous are actually the cancer that drags it further down.

The only really reason this movie gets a 6 from me is the ending. I really thought it was a 3 out of 10 until the ending of the movie, the ending made the movie worth watching. I me how much can you stand a rogue cop movie. It takes away your confidence in the real police to see them potrayed this way.

Denzel Washington is sensational in this, the plot might not quite match his performance but 'Training Day' is still a great watch. It's a riveting 122 minutes, I'm just not in love with how the premise is played out.Washington's character, Alonzo, never really changes throughout, despite a supposed problem of his. I kept waiting for a reason to change the opinion that the first act puts to you regarding him but it never came, there's never a point I cared for him and I assume I was supposed to... at least to some degree? Also, his issue is thrown at you in one scene and isn't really mentioned again until the end. I get the character, just not his arc.Ethan Hawke is very good, too, in this, even if I kept hearing Tom Cruise when he spoke... You also have a load of now familiar faces involved, including Eva Mendes, Raymond Cruz, Cliff Curtis, Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg and Terry Crews. Quite an interesting cast list, that.Loved all of this, except the (still good) plot execution. Maybe that's just me though. From what I've seen, Washington's best performance so far. He's the main takeaway from this whatever way you look at it.

One thing I will say about this film is that it has some of the best one liners ever put on film. I would say that you would have to watch this film for the one liners that Alonzo (Played by Denzel Washington) spills.The film as itself is a lot of fun but it still has some flaws. Overall praise has to go to Denzel Washington, who is loving every minute of his performance as the villain. He does all the villain clichés, smiling, laughing and ranting, things you just love to see villains do. However, they don't just make him bad, the brilliant writing also makes him a complex character, giving a twisted morale compass. You actually question his sanity because, despite all the evil things he does, he actually thinks he is doing the right thing, its performances like this that remind me why Denzel Washington is my favorite actor and can do almost no wrong.The film also does well at setting atmosphere, you really get a sense of these places in fact I even read that they had filmed in areas such as Compton. The appearances by Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg were awesome and well place and I loved the Latino gangsters that Hoyte has to face at the end of the film, one of them played by Cliff Cirtus who I believe can play any ethnic group.However, I do have one issue with the film and that is its secondary character, Hoyte, played by Ethan Hawke. Don't get me wrong, I will take nothing away from Hawke's performance but they made the character of Hoyte so bland and predictable, the goody goody, always does right and I know thats what they were going for but they could have made him more interesting, maybe he is tempted by Alonzo and almost turns to the dark side or at the end of the film, something to make him more complex, particularly after all he has gone through.Overall, if you like cop/crime thrillers then you will definitely enjoy this, if you want something with a lot of depth this may not be for you but hey, watch and make your own conclusion.

In his Acadamy Award Winning Performance,as best Actor.The movie, as the title suggests, follows a single day in the life of rookie cop Jake Hoyt (Hawk) as he is subject to a single day of evaluation by a senior, decorated police narcotics officer Alonzo Harris (Washington) to see if he has what it takes to be a 'narc'. Almost immediately Hoyt is placed on the back foot, constantly caught off guard by Alonzo's nature, his ability to switch between a cold, no-nonsense street-wise player, a genuinely caring and good intentioned leader, and occasionally jovial companion. From their first encounters though, where Hoyt tells Harris he will do "anything you want me to do", the situations Hoyt is taken into become more and more morally ambiguous, from the simple use of excessive force to outright illegal activity, forcing Hoyt to decide which side Harris is truly on, whether to trust him, or whether Hoyt is the unwitting centerpiece of a huge and complex web of lies and set-ups in order for Harris to for fill his own sinister motives..This is the movie that won Denzel the Oscar that year for Best Actor!! A must watch

Ethan Hawke has a "Training Day" - from hell - and learns that his trainer (Denzel Washington) is way out there in this 2001 film directed by Antoine Fuqua. Featured in the film are Scott Glenn, Tom Berenger, Harris Yulin, Eva Mendes, and Snoop Dogg.Hawke is a young family man, Jake, who is teamed up with a decorated narcotics detective, Alonzo, to see if Jake has what it takes to work the street and go undercover. Alonzo is a very unsettling guy - joking one minute, mean the next - and Jake doesn't know quite how to take him. He just knows the job means a lot to him.Gradually it dawns on him that a) Alonzo is more corrupt than any of the perpetrators he says he's after; and b) he's setting Jake up so that he's part of some dirty work and therefore won't be able to talk.Really top-notch, edgy performance from Denzel Washington, who is always full of surprises, here playing an unpredictable character. This was his Oscar winning role, and it was deserved, though there's no question that he deserved it in the past too. The film is full of action, violence, and really raw characters - one certainly gets a sense of the mean streets from watching this film. Ethan Hawke acts just as a man who doesn't know what's going on would - unsure, embarrassed, nervous, scared, but very determined and quick-thinking, as he realizes what he's gotten himself into.Shocking, violent, bloody, and fast - that about sums it up. Some excellent performances along the way, too, from everyone involved.