If you want a movie full of explosions and fighting robots, this is the movie you need to see. Although, it would have been a shorter movie if they didn't go slo-mo during a lot of the fight scenes (which is all right, because it's cool).

I expected this to be an action movie only, but it also has a lot of hilarious jokes similar to American Pie, such as when the robots were making lots of noise, Sam's parents asked him something embarrassing. There is some action, but there is also drama. At least the action and drama aren't so bad. However, the characters weren't so likable. Megan Fox was just eye candy (yes, she was hot, at least) and Shia LaBeouf was not a likable character.Pros:Really funnyGood actionCons:Characters aren't so likableReview: 8

It's August 9th 2020. I am watching this again for the 100th time. Never thought about reviewing it until now. As a massive fan in the 80s I was obsessed with the Comics (have them all) the toys and the tv cartoon. When I learned this was being made I had zero expectations except the trailers making it look something special. It really did not disappoint. The CGIof the robots is brilliant. The story is something that falls in line with the source material which okay isn't the most amazing of stories however it's a modern twist with elements of subtle comedy a real babe in Megan and a badass Megatron. I know people were upset with the decision to scrap Megatron turning into a gun but how would it have worked? This is by far the best of all the movies made so far. If you are a real fan you'll appreciate the efforts made I know I am.

Worth seeing again.
Top-class science fiction.
Lots of action and wild scenes .. Great movie in the beginning of the zeros.

Most awesome film I had watched that year and still is good to watch again best film of my childhood and is full of some good action scenes throughout

This movie is ACTION. I say this first because if you think this movie will be anything more than this, you will be disappointed on some level (as I was). Frame for frame this movie screams Michael Bay.Now that's out of the way, there's a lot of stuff here that works and a lot that doesn't. It's a good thing that the robots do work. Seeing autobots and decepticons in glorious photo-realistic CGI is enough to wring out any childhood fantasy from anybody (not just boys from the 80s). Watching these robots move is to realize a revelation to what is possible with modern movie effects. Whether it's transforming on the move, bashing the living daylights out of each other, or just standing and talking, these guys alone make the movie work. And unlike the other blockbusters that have came out this year, these effects have a sense of weight that adds so much to the visual satisfaction.As for everything else, well... that's when things start to go downhill. In typical epic fashion, this movie contains a sprawling cast. Along with this however, are a large number of writing and acting issues. With such a large number of underdeveloped characters, names are pretty much luxury. Also, most of the human related humor gags miss badly, which makes it hurt more considering a lot of the characters were unnecessary. Jon Voight's Secretary of Defense character completely baffles me, which makes me think that audiences responded positively to the President in Independence Day doing aerial dogfights. Any positives from the supporting cast (including the strange yet entertaining overacting of John Turturro) are outweighed by the large set of negatives.However, the cast has got it where it counts. Shia Lebeouf plays an important part in selling the reality of the robots as the lead character Sam, and also carries an easy likability factor. Megan Fox's acting does a reasonable job bringing some interest to her character to beyond her looks. The voice cast also does an overall superb job. Peter Cullen IS Prime, and although his dialogue does border on the ridiculous, he always has a sense of gravity to his lines. Hugo Weaving also does an equally commendable job as Megatron (His booming entrance will forever be embedded into the minds of little kids everywhere). The rest of the transformers don't say much, which is a shame because I wanted to see so much more interplay between them (The taunts that Optimus and Megatron yell as their fighting is great stuff).Another major gripe I have is Bay's ADD editing. Although it does keep the movie constantly moving, it creates some issues with continuity and distracts from some of the action (probably the biggest crime committed in the movie).I could go on and on about the good things (Bumblebee, Frenzy) and the bad things (Anthony Anderson and his family, forgotten Barricade) and the downright weird things (Dubya's cameo, Sam's friend climbing in a tree). Overall, the film delivers where it really matters. Although I was disappointed, the amount of potential for the sequel (which just got greenlighted) just gets me giddy (is it too much to ask for a tighter script and better acting?) (Also, the Autobot Assemble scene is one of the coolest things I've seen in theaters in years.)

Steven Spielberg and Michael Bay team up for the exciting and action packed blockbuster Transformers. Earth becomes caught up in a war between two groups of alien robots that have come in search of a device that gave life to their planet. That cast includes Shia LaBeouf, Megan Fox, John Turturro, and Jon Voight, who all bring a certain charisma to the film. But the real stars of the film are the special effects, which are amazing. And Michael Bay does an excellent job at delivering high energy action sequences that are visually stunning. The writing is exceptionally poor and the film goes on for far too long, but the action and the visual effects keep the audience engaged. Transformers is messy and cheesy, and sophomoric...but it's also a lot of fun and immensely entertaining.

Transformers is a really good movie it's got really good action scenes it's got the best plot and good character development and the action scenes are well spaced out and an exceptional third act but the best part of the movie is megatron

This movie is simply shocking! The story is taken from a children's cartoon and is now turned into an action packed alien take over the world movie. When I was about to see this movie I suddenly got a thought. What if this movie is just another Independence Day and War of the World. It is unmistakable that aliens taking over the world is an idea that has been worn out but what makes this movie shine is the personality. What its predecessors failed to do was give the alien/robot personality which is very different in Transformers. When one of the Autobots get hurt we can actually feel there pain as if they were human because of there developed characters in this movie. If I may say so myself, this is a must see!

"Transformers" is so far the most fun I have as far as this year's Hollywood summer blockbusters are concerned. On one hand, it's not saying much considering the barrage of underwhelming "three-quels" the past two months (plus the mediocre second installment of "Fantastic Four"). But then again, there's just something sublime in seeing your childhood memories unraveling on the big screen: those hunks of metals transforming from pieces of automobiles to highly advanced metallic sentient, and vice versa.Sam Witwicky (current Hollywood it-guy Shia LaBeouf) has just got a new car, who actually turns out to be the Autobot Bumblebee, an alien tasked to protect Sam, who is in a possession of something his great-great-grandfather owned, and which is vital to the Decepticons' plan of destroying humankind and conquering Earth. Meanwhile, as the US military led by Secretary of Defense Keller (John Voight) is scrambling to figure out who is trying to hack into their computer system and stealing classified files, Sam and his girlfriend Mikaela (Megan Fox) must evade the Decepticon Barricade as well as from the mysterious Agent Simmons (John Turturro) who claims himself from the government group Sector 7.It's nostalgia at its finest. Director Michael Bay, executive producer Steven Spielberg, and screenwriters Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman work on this factor and the result is more of an adult-skewed film that zeros in on audience members weaned on a retrospective mode. Sure, it isn't high-brow art nor does it boast of an intricate plot, but come on, who expects that? While the script needed more coherence and focus (do summer blockbusters nowadays really have to have, like, three subplots per movie?), Bay's trademark acerbic humor and stylish perpetually-on-motion shots work most of the time, except during the climactic battle scenes where you wish the director would take a barbiturate or something, just to at least know who's fighting whom. The film has impressive CGI and the robots are quite stunning, more of stylized versions of their cartoon counterparts. LaBeouf provides a solid central human figure, ably backed up by Fox, Turturro, Anthony Anderson (as a computer hacker), and Kevin Dunn (as Sam's father).All in all it wasn't a definitive adaptation , but I have to admit it was fun to watch. Ultimately, it's nothing more than a Michael Bay-ified Saturday morning cartoon, but it really didn't have to be anything more than that. It may be empty calories but it was fun while it lasted and there were no regrets afterwards. The robots did their thing and it was a smash.

(This comment was deleted by IMDb based on an abuse report filed by another user, so I'm guessing it was pretty abusive; maybe it spoiled some aspect of "the plot," if you can call it that, for some poor soul)I think it was about four or five words into the opening narration when we burst into laughter. "Before time began..." Ouch. When a film can't go 5 seconds without a cliché, it doesn't deserve to be watched, at least not with a straight face.Michael Bay's Transformers is hilariously awful, a sub-Ed Wood affair all the way through, a camp classic in the making. If Bay is the new Edward D. Wood, Jr. then Transformers may be the new Plan 9 from Outer Space. Let me count the ways: 1. Incoherent narration/ incoherent plot? Check.2. Laughably bad dialogue? Check.3. Pompous aliens with inexplicable plan to conquer Earth? Check.4. Day turns to night in an instant? Check.5. Copious use of military stock footage? Check.6. Epic numbers of continuity errors? Check.7. Dramatic confrontations solved via fistfights? Check.8. Dramatic scenes that fly straight out of left field? Check. ("I'm so glad I got in the car with you.") 9. Formerly respectable older star sinks to a new low? Check. (Poor, poor Jon Voight) 10. Incredible overacting that is obviously encouraged by the director? Check.11.Character who cannot speak for no apparent reason? Check.12. Rampant stereotyping (not just the racial ones but stuff like cops acting dumb, doing a lot of shouting, and eating doughnuts, and military officials being all secretive one minute and spilling said secrets the next)? Check.13. Characters with a lot of face time who end up playing no important role in the "story?" Check. (What useful purpose did Duhamel and the troops in Qatar serve after the first ten minutes?) 14. Heavy handed social/political commentary/references? Check. (eBay, eBay, eBay;imagine how much trouble could have been avoided if they'd just BOUGHT THE DAMN GLASSES OFF OF EBAY!) 15. A flying saucer catches on fire then crashes? Check.16. Sudden flashes of light appear from nowhere and knock characters over? Check.17. The action in some shots is hopelessly muddled? Check.18. A character's hilarious death scene is matched only by his hilarious eulogy? Check.19. The action halts suddenly so that someone can explain the back-story? Check.20. Random bursts of laughter fill theater during screening? Check.21. Gaps in dialogue perfect for Mystery Science Theater 3000-esque commentary? Check.22. Inevitable cult following? Check.Only these three things are missing, keeping it from true Ed Wood greatness: 1. No giant octopus. (Though Scorponok comes pretty close.)2. No transvestites. (It has the prefix "trans-" in the title, though.)3. No ludicrously campy speech made by the main villain. (Just " I AM MEGATRON!!!", which is plenty campy but not much of a speech.) Maybe these'll be in the director's cut.Except, of course, Ed Wood's movies had heart; even at their worst they feel like more than exercises in feature-length product placement. Bay doesn't have anything even remotely resembling a heart in his chest - that's why he's not even in Wood's league as a bad director, no matter how many laughs his terrible films get. And at least Wood's films didn't cost $150 million to make.I'm a Transformers fan from way back. I've got an Optimus Prime and a Megatron atop one of my bookshelves. I have ancient videotapes of the fondly remembered cartoon series and a copy of the 20th anniversary movie DVD. I had worried that this film would damage my childhood memories beyond repair, like Star Wars Episode I did. But the film is just TOO bad and TOO stupid to have any real effect on me. The old animated movie, bad as it is, mops the floor with this one. If anything, it is a more mature(!) and entertaining work. The music in the old movie is terrible, but it fits. The music here is just terrible.There are good points, but none anywhere near enough. John Turturro is the only actor who escapes this mess unscathed - his great over-the-top performance suggests that he actually understands how Z-grade the script he was given was. He's a lot of fun to watch, even as he's quickly reduced to a non-entity by the plot mechanics. Turturro is a great actor and this part only serves to elevate his status in my eyes. I hope he got a serious paycheck.I can't stand CGI as a rule, but the special effects here are moderately convincing, at least in those rare moments when the camera isn't performing idiotic cartwheels to obscure them. I honestly like the models for the new TFs (the Autobots, anyway - I can barely tell the Decepticons apart), but the fact that they have little personality isn't so endearing.Maybe the sequel will be up to the lofty standards of Ed Wood's Night of the Ghouls. But I doubt it.

For me just hearing the words "Autobot" and "Decepticon" brings back so many childhood memories. I was a massive fan of the G1 cartoons (never watched any of the spin-offs) and the Marvel comic books from the UK and US. The cartoon appealed to me as a child, while the comics took the mythos deeper in my teenage years with cosmic battles between Gods, a yin/ yang conversation regarding why certain Transformers are inherently good or evil. It was cracking stuff and it was with a lot of excitement that I greeted news of a new big budget movie.Transformers (2007) delivered! OK, so they fiddled with the origin story a little bit, but so do most of the different versions of the show. I thought they got the major characters spot on. Optimus, Bumblebee, Megatron and Starscream were all the same characters as in the TV show and comics. I really liked the fact that Bumblebee could only communicate through radio signals, and, after the execrable scene introducing the minor autobot characters and Optimus Prime's various sermons, really wish that had been the case for all of the autobots. The decepticons are far more interesting, though we see nowhere near enough of Starscream. Megatron and Soundwave are both effective and the best realised characterisations in the film.The humans in the story all do a good job. Shia Lebeouf had not yet been over exposed, and is actually quite entertaining as Spike. Megan Fox was a smoking hot brunette bombshell, still playing a stereotype (hot girl with a blokey hobby who deep down just wants to fit in), but at least not a damsel in distress as we typically see in these films. Spike's parents are awkward, but funny. John Turtorro's character seems to have accidentally stumbled into this film during a coffee break from a Coen brothers film. He seems like he has something much more interesting to do in an edgier film than this one. But his presence, while out of place, is welcome.My big complaint with this is that the the film, after doing a nice job of setting up for a finale, seems to go in light speed in its last twenty minutes. It's often difficult to tell who's fighting who. There's also a death scene that we are supposed to feel sad about, involving a character who's been in a handful of scenes, and had a maximum of two lines of clichéd stereotyped dialogue. The resolution is neat and sets up well for a sequel. Overall, this was a reasonably faithful big screen portrayal of the characters I loved growing up, if not the story. The arrival sequence, and Armageddon-ish soundtrack are both breathtaking and really hammer home a sense of awe and wonder as the Autobots arrive. The awkward attempts by Prime to communicate with humanity are funny. The human characters, apart from Turtorro (who acts like no human I've ever met) all seem to react to the Transformers and their war in the way a normal human being would react. It is a very different back story and beloved elements like the Autobot and decepticons Volcano and underwater bases are lost. But what's left is a the characters we love fighting out the same war, in a way a new generation will find accessible, and didn't alienate me, well not in this original version anyway. I am more than happy to share Optimus, Megatron and Bumblebee with a new generation of fans.

I enjoyed it. And there were some flaws but i liked it.