I do not fully understand why this film has been so severely slated. As far as action films go it ticked all the boxes, plenty of guns, car stunts, good fights, romance and even some corny humour, and has a happy ending .........what do people expect ..........Sir Laurence Olivier doing bloody Hamlet? If you have had a crap day at work, and want to watch a good action movie which is not demanding then this is very good "action" film, if you require something demanding then watch a good foreign film. I had as much fun watching this as I do watching a James Bond or Jackie Chan film. 8/10

I could not believe how awful this movie was with the ugly annoying ginger,the awful editing for the fight scenes,the over the top BMX chase,and very corny remarks. The scene where Statham fights the big guy and he then finishes with knocking him through the floorboards and he then throws a rose down to the bottom of the floorboard that was so corny. Jason also bulked up that might have been the only good idea in this film. His ugly love interest for this movie was so annoying it made me want to destroy my TV if I was not to write a review about this I would have shut my TV off. if you liked Transporter 1 you will hate this garbage.

The worst of the series, but one of the films that made Statham as Statham.

More fast and furious action from Jason Statham, directed in this outing by Olivier Megaton (is that name for real?) The "Transporter" series is the bargain bin version of the James Bond films, but I enjoyed this film way more than the latest Bond, "Quantum of Solace." This installment exists as nothing more than a Jason Statham fetish movie. We see him kicking ass shirtless while the female in peril this time around ogles him. She later makes him perform a striptease much to her delight and -- let's be honest -- the audience's. You don't have to be female or gay to admit that Statham is a fine specimen of a man; most guys would kill to look like him.And as someone who's follicly challenged myself, it's nice to see someone bringing sexy back to bald.Grade: B

This hasn't been verified (yet), but I think Transporter 3 is an attempt to make the stupidest film of all time on every single level, from the characters to the editing to Jason Statham chasing an Audi S8 on a BMX. Even the tag-line makes no sense. "This time, the rules are the same. Except one." What do you mean, the rules are the same, except for one of them? They're not the same at all then are they? They're different. "This time the rules are the same except they're different." More honest.The plot for Transporter 3 is utterly illogical. Dome-headed Frank Martin (Statham) is forced against his will by evil contractor Johnson (Robert Knepper) to transport Valentina, a kidnapped girl from Marseilles to Odessa in order to make the girl's father, a Ukranian official, sign a document allowing a faceless US corporation to dump hazardous waste in his country. Why does it make any difference whether the girl is in Marseilles or Odessa? It doesn't. So why is she being moved? Because otherwise the story wouldn't exist. There, the film has no meaning. Considering the threats to the Ukranian official are made by phone anyway, the girl could be kept in a room next door or across the other side of the world and it would not affect her father's decision. Now, hypothesise that there was actually some reason for her to be in Odessa. Would it not make sense for the corporation to merely hire a private plane to fly her there instead of strong-arming a professional killer (Frank's transporting skills are constantly secondary to his punch-a-guy-through-a-wall abilities, despite what the titles of the trilogy would have you believe) into taking her there by car with a promise of certain death for Frank when he reaches his destination, thereby giving him the ultimate impetus to change these plans in a way that would ensure his survival and the deaths of those who made his involvement in this nonsensical exercise in Discordianism compulsory? The answer is yes.Jason Statham does well in his role as "any character from any film he's ever been in." Except one (I can do it too, tag-line). He actually achieves his career nadir here, when he does a striptease for Valentina, the most annoying character ever committed to film. Played by Natalya Rudakova (her first and, if God/Buddha/contract killers exist, her last), the character embodies everything wrong with the movie. She is incredibly shallow, talks perpetually, finds Frank stabbing a metal pole into somebody's throat a turn on, and tries desperately to look sexy by pouting or arching her eyebrow in every scene. The attempt to provide her with any sort of dimension beyond 'cardboard cut-out' by interspersing every Frank/Valentina conversation with an elaborate description of what she would like to eat at that given moment is not cute, it makes me wish Frank had left her seat-belt undone and driven into a bollard at 80mph. In fact, the only instance where her screen presence is appreciated is when she gets punched in the stomach by the villain and falls to the floor crying. It was almost worth enduring the prolix runtime for.Miscellaneous instances of brilliance include Frank smashing head first through the window of his Audi to oust the guy driving it and then a second later we realise Frank has one of those new 'self-repairing' cars where windows fix themselves and nobody mentions it again. The magic car also manages, in true X-Wing style, to lift itself out of a lake using only the force (or a handy bag of air), before summoning an old man on a tractor to somehow lasso it and pull it to shore whereupon the flooded engine starts first time. Other than the car, the highlight of the film is Frank's inexplicable decision to attach an explosive device to the antagonist, trigger its timer, and then stand next to him looking confused before jumping behind a chair a second prior to the explosion. For an anguished moment I thought Transporter 4 was a no-go, but then Frank emerged totally unscathed and I punched the air in unbridled delight.To conclude, Transporter 3 is the worst action film of 2008, an ineffable feat considering this is the same year that spawned Wanted. Natalya Rudakova takes it upon herself to make the film unwatchable, and not even the ridiculous stunts that would never happen, even in a monkey-Shakespeare infinity, can provide anyone with an excuse to see it.

Using the description "positively ridiculous" for a Transporter movie is a waste of breath. If you have seen the first two of the Jason Staitham action trilogy about a very focused, efficient, and also highly lucky "transporter" hired by those in-the-know for delivering whatever "package" is assigned him, then the dispension of logic is a common occurrence. This sequel has the package being a politician's Ukrainian daughter, to be delivered to some very ruthless clients who want to pollute with toxic waste and need permission in writing to travel ships carrying the stuff over a particular area on the water. So our transporter, who is provided extra motivation to deliver his package on time thanks to a metal bracelet which will explode if he is separate very far from his car which also wired to detonate, must drive across Europe at great speed and accuracy, with the occasional stop along the way, in order to survive. The whole film is built around Staitham's abilities to avoid destruction, the metal bracelet a major thorn in his side at every possible moment. He attempts to find a means to remove it, tries to set up the mastermind behind his predicament by contacting an old friend(a cop from a French village), and finds himself falling in love(and vice versa for her)with the package, who, of course, complicates matters from time to time. Very much a PG-13 actioner with no blood(boo!)and when the bad guys get shot, we don't see the damage on screen. The reason to see this is the impressive, if a bit highly unlikely in a more realistic scenario(this is a Staitham movie, if you recall), stunt work with one scene having Staitham driving his car on it's side between two semis and on top of a moving train. And, the girls get to see their hunk with his shirt off, including one fight scene where he must upend a gang with tools using only his wardrobe as a defense! Oh, and you just have to see how Staitham gets out of a drowning while under water, knowing that if he splits from his sinking car he'll either explode or follow it to his doom. Natalya Rudakova is the hot Ukrainian red-head, Valentina, he must keep out of trouble/danger, while attempting unsuccessfully from getting too attached as she makes advances towards him. François Berléand returns as Inspector Tarconi, Staitham's Frank Martin's major ally as he works to find the politician whose deadline to sign the papers allowing access is 24 hours. Robert Knepper is Martin's dead-serious rival, who seems to have all the cards and tries to betray the transporter on numerous occasions. I just love listening to Rudakova speak in broken English, it makes my heart skip a beat.

I read many of the reviews on rottentomatoes and almost did not go to see this movie. What a mistake that would have been. If you want to go to a movie,sit down and be entertained for 1 hour and 40 minutes with non stop action then this is the movie for you. I am not a serious movie critic I am just an average guy who wants to go to a movie that will be enjoyable. This movie is fun to watch from the beginning to the end. I asked others that were sitting near me what they thought of the movie and they all liked it. I thought that Jason Statham was perfect as Frank Martin. I wish that I had a body like that, I would do a striptease for a living. I enjoyed that the French Inspector was more involved in this movie over the last 2. He brought a lot of humor. The girl at first was annoying but she kind of grew on me and by the end of the movie I liked her.

I would have given 5 stars, but out of respect for Mr. Statham I'm giving 6 stars.The actress has been 'beautified' to such an extent, it looks gaudy. Absolute trashy would be another good description. Men like redheads, but not of this kind please. In fact, her character that has been written is of a very low standard. In the whole movie, her hair is a fiery red, but during the flashback of her abduction, you can clearly see her hair was black. But wait, there's more..The part where she is teasing and annoying Frank is stupid and sets a bad precedent for future movies. And if you watch the Transporter: Refuelled (2015) you will get to know exactly what I mean.Frank is breaking his rules left and right, unless previous movies, where things went along with a little more intent. There is a lot of unnecessary dialogue as has been rightly pointed out by others. This movie lacks nuance in essence. For eg. during a fight scene Miss Redhead is watching Frank fight off some buggers, the camera switches to her and her expression is like what you would expect out of a 3rd grade movie. She could just have watched with an intentional look without any expression and people would understand what's going on in the head of the character. But, they cheaped it out big time. I would blame the director for this of course.The car chase where you have a Mercedes and Frank's Audi on the highway is really bad. The movement's have been sped up and it looks quite amateurish. Unlike the previous movies where they were a lot better. The action sequences were however, not too shabby.Policeman Mr. Tarconi brings some relief to the script. But he can't investigate a poorly written script now, can he?Overall: Only the Transporter series/Mr. Statham fans should really watch it. Others can find something better.

**Very little Spoilers!!** After seeing the first 2 Transporters, I think it's only natural to watch this third outing.Some scenes are repetitive like the fight scene in the garage. It's the same as the first one, which is actually better. It's like they can't think of any more place for Jason to fight and since he drives a car why not a garage, again? The chick is not really as ugly as people say she is (She has great legs) but I'm really tired of those freckles and heavy eye shadow. I can't see her real face properly and after a while I lost interest and focus on Jason instead.Overall I enjoy this film. Not worth to watch in cinema but makes a good rental especially if you are a JS fan.

There is some aspects about this movie that I liked more than the previous 2 installmentsm, but there were some parts that I felt that it was weaker. What I liked about this movie is how they creativitely utilized the scenerios and action. When it comes to the protagonist having a bomb strapped around his hand. Which explodes if he is too far away from his car. So yeah, I thought the concept was cool, especially near the end. But it lacked the entertainment value, the previous two installment was over the top and ridiculous and this installment isn't as corny as the first one. But I just didn't find it as entertaining. But it still had my attention for the standard 1 hour and 30 minutes runtime. It still a watchable action movie for a rental.6.3/10

Frank (Statham) is hired to deliver a package to Odessa on the Black Sea. He has a passenger, Valentina (Rudakova), and he doesn't know why she is in the car with him. They both have bracelets on them that will explode if they are so many feet from the car. This can't be good.Like the Die Hard movies, this Transporter series just gets better and better. You know what you are going to get especially if you saw T1 & T2. And, I was not disappointed. The stunts, acting, and dialogue are first class. In fact, even the music gave the movie the kind of status you would expect with a Bond, Bourne or a John McClane (Bruce Willis) movie. It was really good. The editing was superb and the story moved along at a very good pace. The story gets somewhat complicated so pay attention. Hard to believe, I know, but the Transporter Series is taking a step up. Yes, there were a couple of fights where Frank had to deal with about 12-goons at one time. Hey, this is a Transporter movie. Frank can handle himself. You know that. It's his schtick or something. And, yes, there are some outlandish, possibly unbelievable stunts with the cars, big trucks, a train, and maybe a little CGI, but hey, it's a Transporter movie. We expect those stunts. And, they were more than great. Robert Knepper as Johnson did a great job as the big bad boss now that he is finished with that finally done Prison Break TV show (great show btw). And, Natalya played her part to perfection and she is very pretty and sexy. And, Jason himself just gets better and better and you can see this by his getting more lines to speak. He's good. Deal with it. Hey, this is an action movie thriller, not Shakespeare. Deal with that too. Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: No. Language: No.

I love Jason Statham as a new but also old school style Action hero & i love most of his films & yes i liked the first two Transporter films but this 3rd is terrible. Now Statham is fine & does what he does & is good in his signature role as Frank Martin but the whole film is feels like a mess really, it's a road movie with the most annoying & unattractive women I've seen in a movie for a long time!!! The stupid horrible voiced, skinny & boyish Ginger chick that he gets stuck with, she looks like a vile junkie & i hated her character & she's the 2nd main lead here!!! Statham is ruined by being teamed up with her & all i wanted him to do was shoot her in the head & kick her out of the car!!!A wasted Transporter film & one to not watch again

This film was brilliant. One of the best films I have seen in the past decade. Im only joking. It wasn't.If your an aspiring chef, definitely watch this film. There are so many comments about different foods, different restaurants that you kind of get the feeling that the female character is a wikipedia for recipes. If your an avid BMX fan, then you can learn some swift new moves from Jason. Overall, this film was about as entertaining as a microwave meal. Oh, and the sound quality was terrible. In a cinema, I expect to hear things clearly. When the Russians or whatever they were spoke, it sounded like they were talking Jelly baby. As a side note, I've learned how to make a lobster thermidore.Also, if the bad guys had watched the other 2 transporters, then they would have surely realised that Jason CANNOT be beaten. Even by a group of 10000000 guys. The guys a soldier. You have to give him that.