Just an all around fun romp at the movies. No new or complicated story here. We just get more of Frank kicking some serious tail. Implausible action sequences are forgiven with the wink of an eye from the director and actors. Some of the fastest action you will see that doesn't rely on wire-fu or CGI. Rather, we get a lot of the same from Frank and that is exactly what should be expected. I think in the modern era of the high concept action movies, they have forgotten how to just show the audience a good time. This movie and it's predecessor take us back to a time when action wasn't bogged down by complicated stories, rather the star's charisma and action were all that one needed to enjoy their time in the theater.These movies have no lofty aspirations other than to give you one hell of a ride for an hour and a half. This outing delivers in spades.

Held Great Promise, But Got Carried Away As with so many action movie sequels of today, filmmakers take what was successful and beat it to death on the second film. Usually it is the violence that is way overplayed and this film is a perfect example. The first movie, "The Transporter," had its share of action, but didn't cross the line and was very entertaining. This sequel gets ridiculous and insulting.The first third of this movie is outstanding; the second third "fair" and the final third so ludicrous I kept looking at the clock to see how much time was left in the film. The latter got out of hand with one "Kill Bill"-type fight scene or car chase after another, each scene being less credible than the one before it. These filmmakers just don't know when enough is enough!Once again, you have likable hero is Jason Startham as "Frank martin," the ex-Special Forces agent who is a now a "transporter." You have some wild-looking villains, especially in "Lola" (Kate Nauta ) who competes with Tammy Fae Baker n the makeup department (except this woman is hot) and you have an interesting story. There is just no restraint in it. Too bad because this film has a lot of style to it and held great promise in that first half hour

In Miami, the professional driver Frank Martin (Jason Statham) is working temporarily for the Billings family, transporting their son Jack (Hunter Clary) while his driver is on vacation. Mr. Billings (Matthew Modine) is an important member of the government and Mrs. Audrey Billings (Amber Valletta) trusts on Frank, who promises to protect the boy. When Jack is kidnapped by a mercenary hired by the Colombian cartels, Frank faces the criminals and the Miami police force trying to rescue the kid. When the boy returns to his family, Jack discloses the real and lethal intention of the abduction of Jack."Le Transporteur II" is a great action movie that certainly will never be indicated to an Oscar or discussed by intellectuals at a table in a bar, but very entertaining and recommended for fans of James Bond, Jackie Chan, Jet Li and movies with car chase and explosions. The story is full of adrenaline, funny most of the time, with very hilarious sequences. The performance of Matthew Modine and his grimaces is the negative point of this film. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Carga Explosiva 2" ("Explosive Cargo 2")

Wow... just wow... I remember watching the first Transporter movie. I never had high expectations, and I was neither surprised or disappointed. Same thing went with this action flick. It was so bad that it was good! It did not have any real storyline, it was amazingly corny, and so badly directed that it was one of the most entertaining films in movie history! Definitely worth a watch, it seriously should also be categorized as comedy.... The only problem I had with the movie was... "Where the hell did the hot Asian chick from the first movie go? It's as if he dumped her and never spoke of her again...." Either way, give the movie a shot, you will definitely enjoy it...6/10

So many critics are already lining up to pick at the plot, the action scenes, and the details it's just sad.This is an action movie with twists and turns, some believable, some not so. If you liked The Fifth Element, The Professional, Le Femme Nikita, and True Lies, this is your movie. If you grew up on Bond, Dukes, and Blade Runner, you'll love it.Just relax, ignore all those physics lessons on momentum, dynamics, and forces, and enjoy.If, on the other hand, you want to pay good money to sit in a theater and keep a mental list of all the problems, bs, bad lines, and so on, it's your life.Personally, I adapt and enjoy.

TRANSPORTER 2 isn't going to win any awards for its story (whatever happened to Luc Besson anyway?), but for a fun action movie it's about as good as 2005 offered. Jason Statham reprises the role of Frank Martin, a driver with impressive skills in or out of his car. The 2nd film is at least as silly as the first, and not quite as corny in the script, making it a very entertaining way to pass 80 minutes.Obviously the aim of the film is to capture some of the style of "Golden Era" Hong Kong action films, and Jason Statham does a great job with the help of Cory Yuen's choreography, which is very imaginative and clever (though he reuses a few ideas, e.g. the hosepipe from KISS OF THE DRAGON). Unfortunately the film is blighted by "Hollywood-Style" camera work and editing, which detracts from the choreography... westerners still haven't learnt how to shoot a fight scene as well as a Hong Kong crew (despite having 10x the budget available to do it)... too many closeups, shaky camera that goes against the movement of the action and editing which obscures rather than emphasises what's going on. I'd love to see the action scenes re-edited by one of HK's premier action film editors.Still, small quibbles really since Hong Kong has pretty much stopped making action films this fun anyway, and TRANSPORTER 2 is still plentifully entertaining as it is :)

The sequel to the rather successful action movie in 2002 significantly added to the budget. Thanks to which he added to the entertainment. True, the plot stretches and improbability became even more.Frank Martin moved from France to Miami, where he became a chauffeur for the wealthy Billings family. One day, the couple's little son is kidnapped and Frank has to use his skills again to get him back and prevent the kidnappers' insidious plan.Like the first part, the picture is built on the charisma of Jason Statham. In his signature role as a tough and laconic hero, he is, as usual, very good. Here he fights much more than in the first part and the staging of fights is quite decent. There was now no love line, although Mrs. Billings gave very unambiguous signs, but our Frank stoically endured this and limited himself to an offer of friendship.The rest of the characters are much less memorable. The main villain, played by Alexandro Gassman, is somehow not impressive. But his sexy and dangerous henchman Lola looks very impressive. François Berlin also moved from the first part with the comedic role of the commissioner. In addition, the rather famous former heavyweight boxer Shannon Briggs is present in a small role.In general, a very decent and dynamic action movie, somewhere slightly inferior to the first part, but quite watchable.

The Transporter 2 is about Frank (Jason Statham), a man who will transport anything, no questions asked. All he requires is that you stick to the deal and follow the rules, of which he is very strict with. In the sequel, Frank is transporting a young child named Jack Billings (Hunter Clary) to school and back on weekdays. That's right- Frank is babysitting. Nothing wrong with that, as it has little to do with the actual story once the movie gets going.Due to an elaborate plan by the main villain, Gianni (Alessandro Gassman), and carried out by his ruthless girlfriend/sidekick, Lola (Katie Nauta), young Jack is kidnapped. Of course, Frank is the prime suspect by the police and is pursued from that point forward by the police.After following the kidnappers orders and paying $5 million, Jack's parents retrieve him safe and sound and everything seems great. Without giving anything away, this is where the real problem begins.Katie Nauta delivers a stand out performance in what I believe is her film debut. She has an awesome screen presence and would have liked to see her have a bigger part. She is exactly what Hollywood needs, in my opinion. Someone sexy, new and a little different. She reminds me of both Rebecca Romijn and Fairuza Balk.Jason Statham is great, as usual. Easily the best part of this movie. Jason is England's answer to Jackie Chan. The fight scenes are a little more over the top than the original movie and the same goes for the car chase scenes. While the chase scenes were wild in the first one, it does not come close to the absurdity in the sequel. As seen in the preview, the car jumping scene is not very realistic. It looks like it belongs in XXX: State Of The Union. Don't get me wrong, I liked that movie and I like this one. A lot. I just wish it could have been more like the original. I would still recommend this movie and rate it 8/10.

Frank Martin (Jason Statham) returns as the Transporter. He's driving in Florida as a chauffeur for the Billings. They are having marital problems and Frank rejects Audrey Billings (Amber Valletta)'s advances. Frank drives the boy Jack to the doctor's office and stumbles onto an elaborate scheme to infect the anti-drug forces. Gianni Chellini sent the psychotic Lola to kill the doctor. Frank manages to escape but Gianni placed a bomb under his car. Frank is forced to drive off and the boy is kidnapped. Everybody assumes Frank has kidnapped Jack except Audrey and Inspector Tarconi.Who doesn't love a lingerie clad killer? This is completely over the top and an unabashed popcorn action movie. More than ever, Frank is superhuman. The action is fun but it gets a bit mind-numbing after the first half. It's one of those movies where the bad guys' guns vanishes and get a bunch of random hand-held weapons so that they have a fun acrobatic fight. It couldn't really top the lingerie killer model in the doctor's office anyways. It's also hamstrung by a slightly off virus story.

While THE TRANSPORTER was a fun little action movie, going through the moves and delivering some very stable action sequences, it didn't really provide much out of the ordinary; aside from the oil fight, there was little that the average action fan had seen before. Things change in TRANSPORTER 2, an impossibly slick, overblown and often silly action flick that resembles a James Bond film on acid. Bald-headed Jason Statham is back as the gravel-voiced, smooth-as-heck driver, and delivers his own inimitable brand of martial arts hijinks, just as in the first film. Once more there are a bunch of assorted-race bad guys, who have some dumb idea to take over the world or hold it to ransom; the only person here worth mentioning is Jason Flemyng, who tears up the scenery as a stressed-out Russian gangster.TRANSPORTER 2 seems to contain non-stop action, moreso than any other film I can think of at the moment. There are lots of outrageous chase scenes, such as a speedboat chasing a school bus, and clichéd-but-fun fist-fights in which Statham takes on numerous bad guys one at a time, armed with a hose, amongst other things. This is a noticeably violent film that pushes at its PG-13 all the way through; it's far tougher and bloodier than the first, and is all the better for it. It's just a shame that some of the CGI-laden stunts are so dumb; for instance, I hated the bomb-disposal-by-crane moment, which pushes stupidity to new tepid levels. For the most part, though, TRANSPORTER 2 is slick but somehow old-fashioned, offering the kind of turn-your-brain-off action thrills we've rarely seen since their heyday in the 1980s. A witty script and lotsa violence and stunts make for a winning combination that surpasses the original's formula.

Horrendous cgi in the 3rd act mar an otherwise blemish free action flick that's exactly what it should be: fun. One liners, fights with a hose, fast cars, and a forgettable plot. I can't watch this without smiling.