This is hands down Ben Stiller's best movie. It has great action, great dialogue, great acting, great music and great humor. This movie is filled with quotable lines and works very well. The performances I have to single out for praise are Ben Stiller, Robert Downey Jr, Jay Baruchel, Matthew McConaughey, and Tom Cruise. I feel like this movie approaches it's themes in a way similar to Blazing Saddles but Blazing Saddles has a lot more slapstick. The Tugg Speedman character is not as memorable as Derek Zoolander but this movie is far better than Zoolander is. This is my favorite Ben Stiller movie alongside Meet The Fockers, Zoolander, Starsky and Hutch, and Night At The Museum 1 and 3 but I still haven't seen There's Something About Mary. I honestly prefer Robert Downey Jr as Kirk Lazuras over him as Iron Man but they are both fantastic performances. Tom Cruise is awesome as Less Grossman. He owns his character that is very different from everything else he has done. I hope Ben Stiller is proud of this movie because to me this is his best one.

I saw this movie in theaters and fell in love with it. I've seen it many times throughout the years and have noticed most people either don't know or don't care for this film. After rewatching it yesterday, I just had to write about it.The casting was incredible in my opinion. People think of Ocean's Eleven or The Departed as movies with dream casts. I think Tropic Thunder holds its own. Tom Cruise and Matthew McConaughey are solid minor/supporting characters. I'm not a fan of Tom Cruise, but I find myself quoting all of his Les Grossman lines consistently. Nick Nolte, Steve Coogan, Bill Hader and Danny McBride are great additions. Jay Baruchel is his usual self, Brandon T Jackson was a solid part of the mix and the three main leads really deliver. Special mention to RDJ, by far my favorite performance. It's ridiculous how many layers there are to his character. At some point he's an Australian actor playing a Black guy playing an Asian farmer.Almost every single scene has a quotable line. The action is very well done and the story's so wonderfully over the top.I think the biggest win is how well it has aged in my opinion. Movies like The Hangover were really funny when they came out, but I find there's no replay value. The jokes don't work well the second time around. The same goes for something like Deadpool. On the other hand, films like Borat, Anchorman and Tropic Thunder still make me laugh regardless of how many times I've seen it.I wish Ben Stiller would go back to doing stuff like this. A Les Grossman sequel would've been absolutely incredible!

Tropic Thunder is an interesting take on the war genre. It involves actors going to Vietnam to record a movie about the Vietnam War and ended up actually experiencing something like the Vietnam War (not just acting).I feel like this does show RDJ's acting capabilities. He does play a black character in live action in this movie. Playing a character with a different skin color seems harder in live action than animation, with live action has the physical aspect of it. I feel like that does show how good RDJ is as an actor.I feel like this movie is built a little more on the action and comedy than the story. I feel like some things goes unexplained. It does not explain why there's a war in the first place.Overall, I find the movie alright. When it comes to visuals and acting, it's good. When it comes to story, it's alright and could be better.

This is one of those movies that you will be quoting for the rest of your life with your friends! Tropic Thunder is a great satire that I was honestly expecting to be terrible. The story was actually perfect to make fun of action movies and Hollywood. The situational comedy was genius as these actors were forced to actually survive a war like setting. The action scenes themselves resembled really action movies and were nicely done. They added the action in with the hilarity, and all of it worked perfectly.There were two characters that really stand out. Robert Downey Jr and Tom Cruise were both comedic gold! You won't recognize either of them, but they fit the roles fantastically. Some people find Downey's character to be inappropriate, but please take it for what it is supposed to be. Downey Jr was making fun of method acting and taking that concept to a completely new level with this role. I didn't realize Tom Cruise was in this until the credits. He is in a role that I never thought I would see him in. He is outrageous and over the top. His scenes are some of the most memorable from the movie.I don't want to give too much away since I don't want to spoil any of the comedic gold. Just know that you will be kept laughing the entire time, and the movie will just keep getting better. This is a great watch and definitely worth your time; 8/10.

Since god knows how many years it has been rotting in one of the corners of my watchlist; today was the day (finally) for me to put it out of that cursed, miserable place (yes watchlists can be a vicious place, trust me) and now I am thinking to myself why I didn't do it any earlier?Now coming back to the film...It is hilarious, it's one of those rare comedies that make you laugh out loud, make you crack up like a youngster. The Action on the other hand provides more than was expected of it. Some of the action pieces were stupendously done, could not have possibly asked for more.Yeah, the middle segment did hold back the movie quite a bit, the charm was misplaced for a limited amount of time but it gets back on its feet not long after!Moving on to the Performances...To be honest, everybody was incredible, they all played their parts with utmost sincerity and dedication. Two of them, however, were the uncontested standouts, and I know you have already guessed the names, yes one of them is a barely recognizable Tom Cruise as one of if not the most ridiculous characters he had ever portrayed and the other one is RDJ as Kirk Lazarus.He was the one who made my stomach hurt on so many occasions. His accent, his get-up, the way he conducted himself, and delivered his lines, every minute thing about this man was outright ludicrous and I fu@king loved it.

I had heard a lot about 'Tropic Thunder' about how hilarious it is along with being a sharp satire. A great ensemble cast also raised my expectations. It started great. The spoof trailers were Hilarious, especially 'Satan's Alley'. The starting scene is excellent. But I somehow found the rest of the movie, not so interesting. It is watchable, but not ROFL. RDJ plays Kirk Lazarus, An Australian academy award winning actor ( doesn't that sound familiar? *cough* Crowe *cough*) is hilarious with his stereotypical anachronisms of Africans. Ben Stiller plays Tug Speedman, a falling franchise star whose attempts at serious acting have failed. Jack Black plays Jeff Portnoy, a comedy franchise star who relies on toilet humor. Brandon T Jackson plays Alpha Chino ( Ahem!) And Jay Baruchel palys a novice actor. Sure, the satire bits work. RDJ's character mocks method acting. We get it, but still, is that where the fun ends? Frankly, I expected more. Tom Cruise though, in a cameo, brings in the best laughs, and brings the house down.Watch out for his dance in the end. Overall, I think it's definitely a watchable movie, but a wee bit overrated.

Awesome movie, great comedy that could never be made in this time. This is one of those movies that you will be forever grateful got made. Absolutely over the top entertainment comedic genius.

If you're after a film that does nothing but make fun of big budget Hollywood films and actors then this is for you. Great camera work and great dialogue will leave you laughing your guts up.Mentions for Tom Cruise (whom I don't usually have much time for) and Jack Black, add nothing but hilarity to this cracker of a movie!!