This is an underrated gem. I don't really know why it doesn't get the praise that it deserves

Well well,.................. expected the worse because of hype, but i was gladly surprised . Screenplay , direction and most of all Brad Pitt, Eric Bana, Brian Cox, and Peter o'Toole were completely on top of their game, even Olando Bloom as the love sick coward Paris was very watchable.Fight scenes were not overdone, and the love scenes were part of but didn't completely rule the story of Troy which I also liked. If any thing else Troy will go down as having one of the most impressive fight scenes of any film in history. The fight between Hector and Achilles is reason enough to watch Troy alone...

If Homer's mythical epic "The Iliad" is based on a factual story, that story is magnificently depicted in Wolfgang Petersen's 2004 epic "Troy." In other words, don't expect any goofy 'gods' or 'goddesses' like Athena popping out of thin air because "Troy" is a realistic portrayal of the Trojan war.More than that, "Troy" is arguably the best sword & sandal epic ever put to film. You name the picture -- "Samson and Delilah," "Spartacus," "Ben-Hur," "Ulysses," "The Viking Queen," "Conan the Barbarian," "Braveheart," "Attila," "The Odyssey," "Gladiator," etc. -- "Troy" is superior. At the very least it's as good as some of the better flicks just noted, like "Ben-Hur," and far edges out "Spartacus" and "Samson and Delilah." As for more recent sword & sandal epics, like the overrated "Braveheart" or "Gladiator," "Troy" blows 'em out of the water.Roger Ebert is a great writer and critic, but his mediocre review of "Troy" is all wrong. Ebert's major criticisms, believe it or not, are the main reasons I have such high respect for this film: He complains that Petersen omitted the many Greek 'gods' & 'goddesses' and gripes that the actors perform their roles as believable people and not larger-than-life caricatures. This can, of course, be respectably done, as in the 1955 film "Ulysses," but this is not what Petersen was shooting for in "Troy." His goal, as already noted, was to depict the actual Trojan War on which Homer's myth is based. (Even if it never really took place, wars LIKE IT did).Regarding Brad Pitt's heavily criticized performance as Achilles, I couldn't care less about Pitt until seeing this movie as he does an outstanding job portraying Greece's greatest warrior. No, he's not the bulkiest warrior to ever grace the earth, but he's fast as lightning, confident, expertly skilled and deadly accurate. Even his voice completely fits the role. Eric Bana (from "Hulk") is also great as Hector, Achilles' Trojan counterpart, who's sick of war and just wants to live a life of peace with his family. These two have a showdown in the film and it is without a doubt the greatest mano-a-mano sword & sandal duel ever filmed.What's interesting about the picture is that you never really end up rooting for one side or the other. When Achilles and Hector have their powerful face-off, my wife and I couldn't decide for whom to root. Maybe that's the point. Don't get me wrong, Agamemnon could be viewed as the villain in this picture, and I wasn't rooting for Menelaus when he fights Paris (Orlando Bloom, who seduces Helen, Menelaus' wife), but neither the Greeks nor the Trojans are painted as the 'good guys' or 'bad guys.' They're just people at war, and in war there's no real glory, as Hector points out... and it never ends, as Achilles states. An additional point is that living in a state of war is a JOYLESS existence. And both Bana and Pitt get this across well.As for beautiful women, there are only a couple mentionable: Diane Kruger plays Helen, "the face that launched a thousand ships." Some have complained that she's too plain for the role, but I disagree. I'm not a fan of hers or anything, but she looks pretty dang sharp to me (not to mention has an impressive behind shot). Besides, beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. If Paris deems her worthy of starting a war, who are we to disagree? Also on hand is cutie Rose Byrne who plays Briseis, the virgin priestess whom Achilles converts to the pleasures of the flesh.I should point out that "Troy" was one of the most expensive pictures ever made at the time and it definitely SHOWS on the screen. Make no mistake, "Troy" is breath-taking just to WATCH -- the colossal armies, ships and battles are awe-inspiring to behold, not to mention the Maltan and Mexican locations. And the CGI effects are outstanding for the time, not fake-looking like the Rome & Coliseum scenes in "Gladiator."Another complaint by Ebert is that the dialogue is lousy; nothing could be further from the truth. There are great pieces of dialogue interspersed throughout, including Achilles' comment that the 'gods' envy people because we're mortal and "Everything's beautiful because we're doomed." Thankfully, there's not one goofy one-liner anywhere to be found.James Horner's score should also be mentioned. If you enjoyed the soundtrack of "The Passion of the Christ" you'll love this one because it's just as good/serious/reverent/powerful. For instance, the intense percussion during Achilles and Hector's showdown is magnificent.Interestingly, Brad Pitt, who plays Achilles, injured his Achilles tendon during shooting. Fitting, no?FINAL WORD: If you're in the mood for a sword & sandal epic, "Troy" more than fills the bill. The story captivates from the get-to and never lets up the entire 2.5 hour runtime (technically 2 hours, 42 minutes, with credits). It extravagantly visualizes the Trojan War for you, something I never did until seeing this mind-blowing, outstanding piece of cinema.GRADE: A+

Overall long,but enjoyable,don't get the hate for it,also great performance by Brad Pitt here

Watched this movie last night. Had not seen it for years. Loved it then and loved it now. Yes, the acting is a bit naff but seriously what a movie. It really is a historical war movie rather tran an action flick. The battle and fights scenes are superb, some of the best you will see. The costumes, set design and CGI are excellent. Everything is bathed in glorious sunshine, I don't know how anyone can really knock it. It also does challenge you on who to support. The Greeks kind of go looking for war but at the same time it was the wimp Paris who ran off with Helen. The Trojan's don't want to fight but at the same time Paris did instigate it. Hector is the most noble but then stupidly steps into his brothers duel to save him, ending the one chance of peace Troy has. As for Achilles, well he is super cool and moody. Don't bother taking sides, just enjoy the sun.

Troy could have been a great epic film... if wouldn't have been for some really disrespectful and unnecessary alterations that they did to the immortal story, the great Iliad written by Homer, and considered a masterpiece of literature through thousands and thousands of years... but this guys here just modified it like if all this wouldn't matter...Note: Spoilers coming!Yeah! I am talking about Menelaus killed cowardly by Hector, or Agamemnon killed by Briseis, or Achilles being the cousin of Patroclus, or Hector killing one of the Ayaces, and where is the other Ajax, Diodemes, and all the other Heroes??? If it would not have been for these alterations to the original story, which really disturbed be (if you ever read the Iliad, you'll understand me)and which i really regard as unnecessary, and the usual Hollywood crap added to most American films (a good dose of machismo, exaggeration, historical inaccuracy, etc) This could have been a great film but unfortunately it is not...But this movie is also far away from being a terrible film. The director and the actors did a nice job, Brad Pitt acts very good as usual, The guy that plays Hector does it in an amazing way too, taking most of the sympathy of the public. The movie is exciting and the battles are good, my favorite scene is before Achilles fights Hector, and he repeats the same line that in Homer's book "There are no pacts between men and lions"!! Another thing that I quiet liked and that was different that the book, is that in the film the GODS don't have much to do with the story, while in the Iliad they are central... but that's not too bad, I didn't miss Zeus or Apollo in the film, and I think this is a smart move for the film, because including the Gods would have been quiet difficult for a film like this.What i missed was the respect for some important aspects of the story, which i mentioned before, and which were removed unscrupulously ... It could have been and immortal epic, but those omissions and alterations are unforgivable, and bring my given note from 10/10 to 7/10

I loved this movie on the first (and second and third etc) time watching. I was truly baffled at my friends and peers who ridiculed the movie and said it was just Hollywood cashing in on big stars and the trend of epic movies being released. Maybe that's true but it shouldn't detract from this being honestly one of the best 'epic movies' of its time.Really go back and analyse each scene (if you feel the inclination). Is there a single speech or sentence that doesn't add something to the story? Is there a set piece not worthy of attention? Was there any character who was obsolete or rambling or unmemorable?Every character is so perfectly crafted and so different from their counterpart that you really feel for the characters.I loved and hated each and every one of them in all the right ways. I wanted to punch Paris (which is the point of his character). I was devastated when hector died but loved every blow of the fight. I spent the whole movie trying to decide whether I was on Achilles side or not (again, that's the point). Even the side characters like Sean bean, rose Byrne and Peter o'toole gave 3D performances that gave the story more heart.Then onto the fight scenes. Every spear throw, punch, kick and swing of the sword was felt. I really don't know where half of these film makers have went wrong in recent years. The late 90s and early 2000s seemed to be the golden age of action. When CGI complimented practical effects instead of replacing them. Watch the new matrix and you'll see what I mean. You don't even see half the hits they make.Finally, you can't get make a good epic war movie without some goosebump inducing speeches or quotes. This has it in spades (admittedly mostly from Achilles). E.g. "beyond those walls is immortality. Take it! It's yours!!!" Awesome.Ok, so maybe my 10 stars is a little over the top. It deserves 8.5 in earnest but for anyone reading any of my other reviews you'll see that I tend to inflate the rating out of spite for those giving movies unnecessarily low ratings (i read a review from someone who gave the matrix one star but had only watched the trailer!!! That's really messed up in my opinion. At least watch the whole thing before you trash it).Anyway, I would agree that this probably sits one rung below gladiator, braveheart and lord of the rings, but perhaps that's why so many people panned it. Because they were comparing it to utter greatness. It's a shame this came out in 2004 and not 1994. It would be sitting among the 'best of all time' if it hadn't followed in the footsteps of (and probably learned from) so many other incredible epics."That's why no one will remember your name!" Achilles.

Its strange that my earlier review got deleted. Must be some Bollywood fanboy.I first saw this in 2004 in a theatre, then again on a dvd which I own.Revisited the Director's Cut of 196 minutes recently which has more nudity of Diane Kruger (amazing boobs n butt), it has more violence and gore, including much more of Ajax's bloody rampage on the Trojans during the initial attack by the Greek Army.It also has a sequence where the few surviving Trojans escape to Mount Ida.The only thing i didn't like in the Director's Cut was the scene depicting the soldiers raping women and murdering babies.This one is a good example of a sword n sandal movie but there is no tension or suspense.The best scene is the fight sequence between Hector n Achilles along with a superb background music.

Petersen's 'Troy' boasts of high quality production values. The sets are lavish. The props, especially the costumes and weapons are interesting. The locations and visuals are spectacular. The cinematography is stunning. The special effects look good. The one-on.one combat scenes are well choreographed and visualized. However, the battle scenes look a bit too decorated.Most fans of Hollywood epics would love 'Troy'. I stress on the word Hollywood because for me that is also a major flaw of the film. For the sake of convenience, the film isn't exactly accurate to the source and has the usual Hollywood ending. The characters and parts of the story have been slightly altered. Agamemnon who was known to be a wise thinker appears to be rash and silly here. Hector is known to be extremely strong but here he struggles to fight with Patroclis and appears clumsy and a little frightened when fighting Achilles.The casting of Brad Pitt was definitely intended to pull a larger crowd. Not that Pitt is awful or anything, in fact he does show signs of good acting, but you pretty much see his usual on screen persona rather than him playing Achilles. Eric Bana, though it is questionable whether he fits the part, does a splendid job in the acting department, beating his more famous co-stars Pitt and Bloom. Orlando Bloom is rightfully weak, naive and stubborn as Paris. Brian Cox is brilliantly menacing. Julie Christie has one scene but she shines. Sean Bean is great as Odysseus. Peter O'Toole is excellent as usual. The scene where he displays Priam's despair as he watches Troy fall apart strikes a chord more than any other scene and another scene where he meets Achilles to take back the body of his dead son is incredibly done. This latter scene also has some superb dialogue.The women do not have much to do. Diane Kruger is drop-dead gorgeous as Helen. She fits the part like a jigsaw puzzle and conveys Helen's guilt, ambivalence and love with grace but the character, who plays such a crucial role in history is given too little screen time here and the viewer does not get to see the depth of her thoughts and feelings. Saffron Burrows needs to eat more but her acting is better than her usual. Rose Byrne is alright.'Troy' may not be a cinematic masterpiece but it is visually enticing and overall decent entertainment.

Not too much to say about this much-anticipated but seriously disappointing epic. Brad Pitt's performance can go down as one of the worst ever. He actually does a great imitation of Ben Stiller in Zoolander throughout the picture. Who ever thought that this California surfer-dude type with minimal acting talent could actually bring the stoic yet complicated heroism required for the role of the great Greek hero Achilles. Possibly the worst casting ever! Brad's acting is criminal in this movie. The epitome of junk-food lollipop Hollywood cinema. It could just as well as been Britney Spears as Achilles, with same effect. On the flip-side, most other actors are quite good, especially Eric Bana as Hector.The music in this movie is horrendous, sappy, syrupy, and recycled from Jurassic Park and Star Wars. It made me sick to my stomach when this cheesy cookie-cutter music swells during the battle scenes. ugh!The cinematography was also less than par. When everything wasn't CGI and actually human, the footage seems over-exposed. Close the iris 1 f-stop Roger Pratt! What were you thinking? The film had no visual lavishness, no colour-play, no truly great pictures to look at. Let's not even mention the story! Who on earth gave Peterson the right to kill off Agamemnon??!! Homer and Aeschylus are rolling in their graves.The movie might be more than tolerable if it weren't for Brad Pitt.