This is just one person's opinion. No need to get angry, in fact I'd like you to convince me I'm wrong.The movie is missing the magic. Edward appeared on screen and I swooned. He opened his mouth and I cringed. Edward is strong and confident. He wasn't a whiney, smitten child. In love yes, but brooding and in pain. Bella was delicate, not just dry and indifferent. This Bella lacked emotion maybe even a soul-who is she? She didn't feel like the yearning, thoughtful Bella I had imagined. I wished she needed to be protected. This version can take care of her own business--and I'm not sure how bad she wants to be with Edward, or why for that matter. Maybe if she narrated her emotions would have been more pronounced. Don't get me wrong, the actors' chemistry is very evident, they should get married and have melodramatic children. But was the film from Bella's perspective or not? The changing pov was off-putting. This film proves that Meyer's pages and pages are what bring this story and Edward and Bella's love to life.The TONE was completely lost in the book to script to screen translation. The story is supposed to be a song that takes you to another world, one where vampires and werewolves exist. The story is an intoxicating melody. Here we're presented with a boy-band pop song sung by kids who think of themselves as classically trained Opera singers. PICK ONE. Be a chart-topping, America's Top 40 or be the haunting, dangerous lullaby I think a lot of fans were looking for.Speaking of boy band...the screen version of Jacob Black is one "Bye Bye Bye" from being the lead singer in Over-Produced-Axe-Wearing-Guy-Group 2008. Jacob, in my mind, is earthy. He's a guy's guy and gets his hands dirty fixing cars and building stuff. Jacob always left me feeling like he was wise beyond his years, a smitten kitten of course, but I always felt that he was more dynamic than this cute little wig-wearing version. I always felt this sense of history and quiet power. This version wears Abercrombie (and randomly appears from behind trees apparently...you'll see).The cast was quite OK for me. I did feel bad watching them try to deliver the lines they were given. I get that this is a vampire-romance movie, but honestly. The script is dripping in gooey, sticky, melted, mixed cheeses. OK, so it's fantastical, but to slap me in the face with Gouda and Brie every other frame is just insulting. Cheese aside, Charlie was great. His timing was spot on. Carlisle played the part, but the caked-on white makeup so completely distracting. Esme-- I wanted to crawl up onto her lap and have her tell me bedtime stories. Love it. Alice... that's her on that screen. A little bouncier and she's perfect. Jasper-- freakishly creepy and pained, loved it. When he comes out of his shell and plays more than the wide-eyed silent sidekick, I'm all over it. Those who doubted Reed need to reconsider. Rosalie is freaking hot and one sassy vamp. Emmett...holy crap, on the money (call me). Jessica is the best casting job in life...Mike, however...really?I know that this is just a movie. Film is a different medium than books. We get to create the world from a book but people get to interpret for us on screen, I know. I just wish it wasn't so far off base for me. I wanted nothing more than to enjoy it. I think I'm going to remember the series the way I imagined it and set this version aside. My oil canvas painting to their Polaroid. Who's melodramatic now? This girl.Here's hopping they make a choice for the next one: teen scene or dark love story so audiences know what they're getting into. Teenie Boppers are quite loyal, perhaps bubblegum will beef up their box office.

I think this movie suffered from lack of a good script and bad acting.

As an avid fantasy reader, I have not delved the vampire depths, and I find the current fad of vampires as sex objects disgusting.I had planed to never watch this movie, but when I found that some of the former MST3K crowd (Mike, Bill, and Kevin) made their own "commentary" for it (rifftrax.com), I just couldn't resist. To sum up the plot in one word: Angst To sum up the event that is the movie(in sotto voce): Line!So if I were to rate this as an MST3K film it would be about a 8 or 9. The acting on the part of the main characters was poor throughout, and the pacing was terrible. The only clue that time had gone by was in the dialog (I swear the clothes rarely changed!), and only in passing. Also, Bella's high school seems to only consist of parking lot, cafeteria and Biology. Ha!

Let's face it, the movie was a total let down. I had low expectations. Extremely low but the movie disappointed me even then. The amazing love story we all read in the books was transformed into a whiny preteen nightmare. There was chemistry between Robert and Kristen, there is no denying that, but I didn't feel the need that is in the books. They are supposed to be I-can't-live-without-you, take-me-forever, I'm-devoted-to-you-always in love (Unless you want to count that one incident in Eclipse, but let's face it, most of us don't) but all I saw was a bored vampire and an indifferent girl.The one thing that made me most angry was the complete disregard for the meadow scene. It is a VERY important part in the book where they pretty much declare themselves to each other. This meadow scene lasted all of 10 seconds and consisted of them staring at each other. They changed around the timing of the movie so much that it almost made no sense. Lets face it, the book was a good story but the writing wasn't up to par. It was pretty much written to be turned into a movie and the screenwriter obviously didn't realize that.Sure, Robert was smoking hot (don't lie, you saw the ray bands) but his performance of Edward was terrible. The first time Bella walked into the Biology class, I laughed at his expression as did most people in the theater (some of them were too busy squealing). His badly-covered up English accent was also laughable.Jasper was perfect, the person that made me laugh during the movie because if you looked, not at where the camera was focused, in most scenes you could see him lurking in the background and I think it fit his character well. Carlisle was cast to a T as were Esme, Jessica, Rosalie, Emmett and Alice. They all fit their parts well even if I imagined Alice a little bouncier, Emmett a little bigger and Rosalie a bit more bitchy.Oh, the camera work. I'm not denying it, I liked the flickers between scenes at times but after a while, it can give you a headache. The insane closeups did NOT do what they were supposed to (show the intensity) instead they made me where they were half the time and realize how much makeup the actors where wearing. Every time there was a close up on Robert, it was totally obvious he was wearing contacts. Seriously, look for the line.The one thing that was actually done really well was the climax with the ballet studio and James. The fight scene was pretty cool and I totally believed that James wanted to kill Bella right there. But, with every up there is a down. After James is killed and They are taking care of Bella, why couldn't Edward have been more upset? It's written right in the book that he all but cries when he sees her.The movie was hyped up to an extreme so it was obvious it would be a let down, I just didn't know how bad it actually was. I don't get why they couldn't do little things that would have made it a bit better; The biology class incident? Bella wearing blue? Why the hell did James have to bite her arm instead of her hand? Would that have been SO hard to change? All in all, go see it if you are a Twilight fan but be weary. If you aren't, stay away because you will not understand a thing that is going on. As I said in my title, somewhere, Edwards is rolling over in his hypothetical coffin (yes I know they don't sleep in coffins, or sleep period for that matter, but that's why it's hypothetical)

What would you do, if a vampire captures you, sends your heart into a spin, vessels bursting out your skin, only drawback is he's keen, to suck the life out of your spleen, though he'll hold back at his leisure, to ensure you get your pleasure, competition soon arrives, puts your man in overdrive, all the passion and the gory, to lay claim to all your glory.

I've never wanted to walk out of a movie so badly. I think you should give the film a chance to develop fully before forming an opinion. This was certainly not a "film" with any substance. The acting was horrible, the script was horrible, the whole thing was rushed and insubstantial. For being such a predicted box office hit, given the already large fan base, the budget must have been dismal. I think you would need to be no older than 10 to enjoy this film, but the kissing scene in Bella's bedroom was too passionate for a kid's movie (Bella's in her panties!?). In the books it takes them a long time to move forward with their physical relationship. The story was clearly written with teens in mind but still enjoyable for adults. The movie was a cringer.