Having lived in Oklahoma all of my life, I was glad that they filmed a lot of it here. The film shows what it's really like here in rural Oklahoma, mostly green rolling country with trees, hills and water, with a few oil pumps and windmills thrown in. I don't need to add anything to the comments about the lack of scientific accuracy do I? My wife and I always note with interest that they occasionally get a few things right. The reason I will watch this movie again from time to time is that it is FUN. I love the exuberance of Bill Paxton's team; I know people like the Philip Seymour Hoffman character and I myself LOVE watching the buildup of a thunderstorm, seeing the sky turn green, and the way the air smells and feels before and after one of our storms. Yes, tornadoes are deadly threats, but we ALWAYS have warnings here. There would never be a drive-in theater full of people in cars with no idea that a funnel is on top of them, but, in this movie, that's beside the point. It's pure fun watching the screen ripped apart while Jack Nicholson is wielding the ax. If you are expecting true life reality, this is not your movie. Just go for the spectacle! The bit of reality in this movie, that Oklahoma is lovely in its own way, and that some people love thunderstorms and tornadoes was enough reality for me, and the rest is just the fun of a cinematic roller-coaster ride with some great special effects. It's not Shakespeare or even "Titanic", so don't expect more and just enjoy it for what it is!

I get a lot of stick from friends for saying this, but: I really like Twister. I enjoy a good thoughtful film as much as the next stuck-up film snob, but I also love damned good action flicks. Twister is a big dumb summer blockbuster with no pretensions whatsoever. I *like* the fact that the money is all up there on the screen - lots of tornadoes ripping apart farmhouses and throwing trucks around. I *like* that it's one long chase movie. I *like* looking at Helen Hunt's beautiful face. I saw Twister twice at the cinema, and at least three times since - and I've enjoyed it every single time. Can you get a better recommendation than that?Twister will never satisfy some people... in particular, those who watch it, for some strange reason, expecting a cerebral masterpiece. Enjoy it for what it is: One of the best summer blockbusters ever.

I like disaster movies when they are done right, and while Twister is no masterpiece it is a sort of guilty pleasure for me. I agree the script has its weak spots, the pace is rather pedestrian and the plot on the clichéd and unrealistic side of things. But Twister is nostalgic fun, with some decent direction and acting, complete with some pretty incredible special effects. The cinematography and scenery are also pretty good, and the score is effective.Overall, Twister is no masterpiece in any shape or form, but to me it was fun and a guilty pleasure in some ways. While it could have been better it could have been much worse as well. 7/10 Bethany Cox

Being from the west coast I never had a whole lot of interest in the natural phenomena showcased in this film. Where I live an inch of rain is headline news. I had absolutely no interest in Twister until I saw it was on late one boring night. Having nothing better to do, I obliged the television and payed attention. I found Twister to be what I call a nice bedtime movie. While it failed to anthropomorphize the tornado the way Backdraft successfully did with fire, the characters were well fleshed out, there was a healthy balance of comedy, drama and (at the time) cutting edge special FX. I found that as long as the viewer came in with no expectation, Twister would be a fun and easy to watch nappy time movie, perfect for watching on a rainy day, curled up with a blanket. So to sum everything up, don't expect an epic, emotionally charged extravaganza, but if you are willing to accept a decently woven story with reasonably believable characters, and have a rainy afternoon to kill, check out Twister. You shouldn't be too disappointed.

A lot of critics have bashed this movie for its simple plot, only-decent script, and reliance on special effects to sell. However, that's what it's SUPPOSED to be! If you go to see this movie, don't expect an Oscar-winning film. It's a very simple plot (No spoilers): A group of storm chasers are tracking a huge front spawning multiple tornadoes throughout Oklahoma, hoping to test a new weather sensory device that could possibly help with tornado warning systems. To complicate things, the former leader of the group (Bill Paxton) has come back to have his ex-wife and current supervisor of the team (Helen Hunt) sign the final divorce papers. However, he finds himself swept up (no pun intended) in joining the chase again. That's pretty much it; not outrageous nor all that thought provoking.The actors are all reputable (Paxton, Hunt, Elwes, Hoffman, Ruck, etc) and very good in their roles and they work well with the somewhat weak dialog, and the special effects are very good. Also, the physics are relatively accurate; I can't really think of any groan-inducing actions scenes. All in all, a great movie for parties, especially if you have a big screen and a good sound system.

Despite some bad CG throughout, Twister still manages to be a really good disaster movie that's tense and thrilling. Bill Paxton, Helen Hunt and Jami Gertz are all great. Cary Elwes is really good. It's well paced and well filmed with really good direction from Jan De Bont. The music by Mark Mancina is great.

We all know that the disaster movie lived a golden age in the 1970s. Then with real disastrous experiences in the late 1970s like (The Swarm - 1978), (The Concorde ... Airport '79 - 1979), and (When Time Ran Out - 1980), it was obvious that the heyday has had its day.As you know also that in less than 10 years, the disaster movie came back again and galore. I think the reason why, aside from of the yearning, was the development of the special effects that hit a new peak with the birth of CGI.The first movie that began the revival was the 1988 super hit (Die Hard), with a threat for a building and all the people in it (a la' "The Towering Inferno - 1974"). True that it didn't rely on the CGI much, but definitely it got (Jan de Bont) as a director of photography.It's clear that this man has a thing for the disaster movies. The first movie he directed was (Speed - 1994), another super hit with a bombed bus. And its sequel (Speed 2 Cruise Control - 1997) about a ship with calamity.In the acme of this other golden age, you'd find in the same year of 1996 movies like (Executive Decision), (Daylight), (Mars Attacks!), and for sure (Independence Day). Compared to them or not, (Twister) isn't a good disaster movie inasmuch as a good showreel for the recent special effects back then!The main problem in any disaster movie was always the drama. When it comes to (Twister), it's no exception. The case of 2 lovers that return to each other wasn't the best story to fill the in-between of this visual show, or to use this very show as a clever equivalent to any dramatic situation.It was total waste to watch a brilliant actress like (Helen Hunt) in the middle of a weak story like this. Although the case of 2 different competing teams was thrilling, but it ended earlier, and the big climactic sequence at the end, of being in the middle of the twister, was well directed, but didn't serve any story well, since the script didn't utilize it as enlightenment moment for anything, or anyone, to look eventually dazzling yet naive; almost like the movie itself.It got the same problem of contemporary movies like (Jumanji), one year earlier, where you feel that the CGI was designed first, then they looked for any story to fit it. I remember that a lot of viewers at the time came out of (Twister) talking about the flying cow more than anything; Ok, that's a shortcoming if you asked me.Despite its good visuals, (Twister) remains at the average section of the 1990s disaster movies, with ones like (Under Siege 2 - 1995), (Volcano - 1997), and (Dante's Peak - 1997).

Did everyone feel the way I felt? I was rooting for the twister. I live in Madisonville, Ky, where in 2005 we had the strongest tornado (F4 but some say F5) in the country that year. Amazingly enough, we did not lose a single life in that hellstorm. But...we did not have the bland characters living in our town that live in this movie. And the final scene? Where Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt strap themselves to the pipes? Well...just so you know...a tornado of that intensity is going to rip concrete from the ground, making you forget it was even there. It is going to pick up combines and toss them like children's blocks. It is going to suck their eyes out of their heads. It is going to strip the skin from their bones. And that isn't even taking into account the damage from the blowing debris! A piece of straw is going to be slung at them at 150 mph. Sand is going to strip their clothes and flesh from them. Sounds kind of biblical...but basically, remember, you are not going to survive. For them to survive, and then just sit there and *smooch*, well, it was sickening. If that had actually happened, kissing is farthest thing from your mind--you want to know where your change of pants is at...