Two for the Money is a decent, diverting picture. The material at times seems a little beneath these fine actors, but the film ends up hitting enough of the right notes to make it worth seeing.Matthew McConaughey would seem a little out of his league on the same screen with Al Pacino and Rene Russo. By the end of the film, you will most likely feel that he's more than held his own, however. McConaughey plays a former college football star who sees his chances of a professional career destroyed by a serious injury. He quickly finds himself picking college football games for a low-rent betting line. With all of his past experience as a player, he does quite well with it. Well enough to attract the attention of Al Pacino, who runs a more up-scale operation in New York. By the end of the first half hour, McConaughey is picking all kinds of football winners, and making Pacino a ton of money. As you would expect, this success does not last very long as various egos spiral out of control and the betting gods turn on our heroes as they eventually do to all of us. The film is more of a character study about the minds of gamblers and lost identity than it is about the workings of an actual betting organization. Overall, it works on a couple different levels.Pacino is fine, but not as out of control as you might hope. His character has a bad heart, so any typical Pacino tantrums are not really in order for him. He brings as much dignity as one could to the role of an addicted gambler, though. Rene Russo is terrific as his long-suffering wife and a former junkie. Pacino at some points seems to be trying to lose her to McConaughey. He being one of those terribly afflicted gamblers who only feels alive when he's just lost everything he wagered. The supporting cast is pretty good, too. Jeremy Piven is always appreciated, and so is the appearance by Armand Assante.The best scene in the film takes place at a betting support group meeting that Pacino and his new protégé walk in on. Pacino, being a hopeless gambler himself shows empathy toward these degenerates, then has the nerve to pass out his business card to them!!! The logic I guess being that if you people have to lose, you might as well do it through a fellow degenerate gambler.The biggest flaw I noticed was too many shots of McConaughey without his shirt on. Yes, the guy has great abs, but we don't need to see so much of them!! Overall this is a good film with some interesting things to say about people who bet. Notice how in the end, the "experts" are really just like the guys they take calls from. During the big games, we're all just sitting there with a beer in our hand, hanging by every first down or dropped ball.7 of 10 stars.The Hound.

Mathew McConaughey is Brandon Lane, a former football star recruited by Walter Abraham (Al Pacino), the head of a sports consulting firm to help them set the line for their sports betting business. Lane's ability to predict the outcome of games quickly turns him into a golden boy, but it soon becomes apparent that he's bitten off more than he can chew when his abilities start to falter.Two for the Money is a forgettable, generic thriller that doesn't really offer anything new. The film does have some entertaining moments and the first half of the movie is actually pretty exciting to watch. But, the second half is really slow and very tedious. It just drags on and on and for no reason either. It could have been a nice 90 minute movie but the story is stretched out into a two hour film. Luckily, Al Pacino is in the movie and he keeps the film exciting. He gives a good, over the top performance and he pretty much raises the film up to mediocrity. Personally, sports betting isn't that interesting to me but Al Pacino makes it interesting. He can turn a bad script into an okay movie which is what he does with the film. Let's be honest, the script is not very good and the direction is weak. It's so obvious where things are going which is not surprising because this is the same guy that made Taking Lives.Al Pacino is playing mentor to Matthew McConaughey and their chemistry together isn't very strong. McConaughey is a pretty weak actor and he can't keep up with Pacino. The lead role should have gone to someone else. Rene Russo is okay as Pacino's wife. She gives a decent performance but she was a little too bland to truly stand out. Another thing about the film that people may not like is that every character is unlikable. It's hard to care for these characters because they are either pretty mean or bland. It didn't really bother me because I watched the film to be entertained and I did get some entertainment value from the movie. In the end, if you like Al Pacino then you should give the film a shot, if you don't then just skip it. Rating 6/10

In Vegas, after breaking the knee in a game, the former promising football player Brandon Lang (Matthew McConaughey) has to work in a phone service foreseeing the results of the games due to the lack of professional options. After many successful predictions, he is invited by Walter Abrams (Al Pacino) to move to Manhattan and work with him in his gambling advising business. Brandon changes his name and personality, becomes famous advising clients and close to Walter's family, and a good friend of his wife, the owner of a hairdresser saloon Toni Morrow (Rene Russo). When the predictions of Brandon fail, he feels that it is time to return home."Two for the Money" is a good entertainment, mainly because it is based on a true story, inclusive in the DVD there is an interview of the screenplay writer with the real Brandon. The story partially discloses an illegal business that deals with billions of dollars, and keeps the interest until the end, without being exceptional or unforgettable. Al Pacino, Matthew McConaughey and Rene Russo make this film worth. My vote is six.Title (Brazil): "Tudo Por Dinheiro" ("All for Money")

Six years after a career-ending injury, former college football player Brandon Lang (Matthew McConaughey) is doing little more than a phone service for gamblers. After some amazing success, he is lured to NY to join Walter Abrams (Al Pacino) in his business of gambling predictions. It's a fast talking adrenaline junkie's business and Walter's wife Toni (Rene Russo) tries to keep ever present dangers in check.The story isn't that exciting. The characters are questionable. The big takeaway is the acting. Matthew McConaughey is a master of this brash young guy. He works well with the master Al Pacino. Al has more intensity than the rest of the cast. And Rene Russo has that superior regal airs about her. The movie starts well, but it does slow down around the middle. It is just too long, and the second half gets quite tiresome. Maybe the Pacino intensity wore me out. At the end, I really didn't care about anybody in the movie.

Matthew McConaughey is Brandon Lang, a former college football star who devastated his knee and was never able to play professionally. Six years later he's recording "sports predictions" for a 1-900 number in Las Vegas and living with his mom and younger brother, still dreaming of playing professional football one day. He never hears from the Cowboys, but he does get a call from Walter Abrams (the Godfather himself, Al Pacino), an entrepreneur who runs his own sports betting business, inviting him to move to New York and work for him.Though Brandon Lang is the hero of the story, Walter Abrams is the beating heart of Two For The Money. He's a recovered gambling addict who runs his own empire of "sports betting advisers." No other film has ever explored the psyche of the gambling addict so precisely and intimately. Abrams describes what it feels like to win, but even more fascinatingly, he discusses the addict's subconscious desire to loose it all. Gambling addicts don't bury themselves in debt because they're sure they can win. They do it because they need to loose everything to feel alive.Two For The Money is better than I expected. The characters are rich and complex and the story is never dull. Hell, this movie is worth seeing for the topless McConaughey shots alone.

Networks can't talk about it. The government can't tax it. Yet sports betting is a $200 billion a year business. A business that strives to exploit every vulnerability, manipulate every gullibility, and convince the client that it can provide them certainty in an uncertain world.Two for the Money is the story of one man's journey into the sports gambling world. Matthew McConaughey delivers one of his more impressive performances as he transforms from Brandon Lang, the smooth-talking golden boy, into John Anthony - "The Million Dollar Man with the Billion Dollar Plan." A transformation that comes complete with a new suit, a new car, a new attitude, and slicked back hair - a sure-fire movie sign that corruption or a loss of innocence is imminent.Portraying a character that must deal with this corruption of innocence, McConaughey demonstrates that he can act with more than just his dimples and down-home Southern charm. Lang is a machine. He knows the teams, the leagues, the players, the game. All he does is work out and pick winners, two facts made abundantly clear by McConaughey's propensity to walk around shirtless just as often as he makes football picks. I may have rolled my eyes once or twice, but I heard nary a complaint from the ladies in the audience. Except for that one that looked a little like my Uncle Larry.Lang's corruption rests solely on the fragile shoulders of Walter Abrams, a sleazy character played so effortlessly by Al Pacino that you can't help but feel slightly disturbed by the ease with which he seems capable of tainting ambitious young men. Screaming less than usual, Pacino's portrayal is nothing short of an indictment of those sports advisors who feed on the weak. Sports gambling may be illegal in 46 states, but Abrams is well aware that "sports advising" (the politically correct preference, no doubt) is not. Despite the false promise of certainty, sports advising is presented as more used car salesmanship than mathematical study. Figure out your client's needs, and get his money. That's the name of the game. As for actually picking a winner? It's 50-50. A flip of the coin.Sure, Lang is able to compile a pretty impressive hot streak, but what happens when it comes to a crashing halt? The peaks are indeed very high when the fun and money are flowing, but is it worth the lesson learned when your family is threatened and you're hit with the realization of what losing $380,000 can do to a family? Ultimately, the movie would have proved more effective if there had been a greater emphasis on the devastation of the lows of losing. Consequences are touched but never fully realized. I would have also liked less predictability in a movie about a very unpredictable lifestyle, but Two for the Money still succeeds in giving the audience a glimpse of what gets in the minds of those willing to gamble. Is it about the game? Is it about the money? Or, as Abrams believes, is it about the risk some people are willing to take to feel what they perceive as being alive?The dialogue and character interaction happen at a quick enough pace to grab and seal your attention, and while the last act is somewhat weighed down by the two-hour runtime and the semi-sappy melodrama of plans gone awry, Money still manages to convince the audience to care about whether or not Brandon can get back to where he began - the purity of the game.You want certainty in an uncertain world? Then put your money on obligatory shirtless Matthew McConaughey scenes and Pacino's incisors getting a nice scene-chewing workout. It's a safer bet than trusting your money with the decision-making of those who care more about the profit than they do about you.THE GIST Two for the Money will prove to be most enjoyable to those with some familiarity or interest with sports and the gambling side of the business. But McConaughey and Pacino deliver enough laughs and energy to make this more accessible to those with little knowledge of the subject matter. If you have your doubts about this one then don't worry about spending the big bucks to see it on the big screen - it'll make for a good rental.

* Spoiler alert *As astounding waste of time, talent and yes, money, "Two for the Money" varies from predictable to preposterous to unpleasant without pausing for entertainment.A top-flight cast, plus Matthew McConaughey, tries to put a palatable spin on the saga of a sports betting firm preying on gullible customers who should instead be in Gamblers Anonymous.Scriptwriter Dan Gilroy has a strong facility for finding old clichés in new settings, crafting a tale of boy-meets-boy, boy-makes-boy-money, boy-loses-boy-money, oh-who-cares.McConaughey is a washed-up football player trying to rehabilitate an injury and making ends meet through a betting tips show. There's a surface plausibility that he has some insights into college football as a former player, which gets him customers.In swoops Al Pacino as the owner of a high-flying betting service. He brings Matthew to New York to pick pro games, setting him up with a posh apartment and work-out room to offer beefcake shots of McConaughey for his fans of various lifestyles.Gedde Watanabe stands in for all the hapless betters relying on the service. When McConaughey hits big with his initial picks, Watanabe gets gulled into anteing up more. Unfortunately, the power goes to Matt's pretty head. Immediately. He has one good week, and then is off to play golf instead of researching games.Pacino is fine with this. Infatuated with his new boy toy, he fires long-time associate Jeremy Piven. Rene Russo plays Al's very tolerant wife _ you see, she knows that he's a gambling addict himself. There's no difference between Al and his customers, except that he's taking their money to enable his own bets. Always watchable, Piven gets out of the movie with his dignity intact, and Russo is her usual reliable self.But Pacino is in full "hoo-ha" mode as he tries to inject some life into his empty character. At that, Gilroy gives him more to work with then the rest of the cast. As one of Al's employees, super-skinny Carly Pope stands around in the background of multiple scenes while getting perhaps 10 words of dialogue. Her big scene is sliding into McConaughey's lap to kiss him for his good work. One can't help thinking of Susan St. James snuggling up with Rock Hudson in "McMillan and Wife."Gilroy's script is so inept that he can't even realistically portray the ebb-and-flow of games. After things go wrong and McConaughey tries to get back on track, there's a scene where the football team he's picked goes up over the spread with two minutes to play. It's just the sort of situation in a real game where the other team would push for a quick score. But in Gilroy's world, Matt's colleagues immediately start celebrating their success, and then are stunned when the other team scores. (And of course, the teams playing are always "New York," never Houston or Tampa Bay.)By the end, after ruining Watanabe, getting threatened by mobster types, and (attention guys!) showing off more of his physique, McConaughey decides to return to oblivion, but not without leaving Al his very special Super Bowl pick. Will Pacino use it and keep his shell game afloat? Never has a big game seemed so small.

TWO FOR THE MONEY takes on the topic of Sports Gambling and makes a serious attempt to turn it into a movie. The story is apparently based on a true one (as per the opening screen statement) but it is from the pen of Dan Gilroy that the well-drawn characters are realized. DJ Caruso (Smallville, The Salton Sea, The Shield) knows his way around matters such as these and his pacing is fine, allowing for the isolated 'arias' in the film to work well. The problem, for this viewer, is the topic: how interesting can bilking chronic gamblers over football game wagers possibly be? The story is related by Brandon Long (Matthew McConaughey) who begins life as a sports hero and just at the moment when he is ready to break in to the Pro Football domain, he fractures his leg in a winning touchdown. Six years later, and still dreaming of making it as a player of football, finds him in the numbers game with a talent for picking winning teams and calling 900 numbers to urge gullible people t place bets according to his predictions. Enter Alter Abrams (Al Pacino), a recovering Gambler who is making it big in the sports gambling arena. He coerces Brandon to join him in New York, wines him, dines him with the aid of his smart and beautiful wife Toni (Rene Russo), and in no time Brandon Long takes on the persona of John Anthony and makes it big as a TV personality who successfully bilks willing gambling people out of their money. Long as Anthony takes on a life of his own and it is the conflagration between the creator Abrams and the protégé Anthony that fleshes out the film.Interesting to a point, the story loses steam in the last half and we soon lose interest in the outcome or the characters. And not that that is the fault of the actors! Al Pacino is very effective as the reformed gambler still fighting demons and Rene Russo is as beautiful as ever, acting her role with complete conviction and holding what is left of the story, once started, together. Matthew McConaughey spends much of the movie without his shirt on which is a major contribution to the visuals of the film! Buff and beautiful he manages to keep the heart of Brandon Long beating inside the persona of John Anthony.Not a great movie by any means, but some truly fine acting from the trio of stars. The supporting cast also gives solid roles despite the skimpy script. If gambling of any sort, and sports gambling in particular, is of interest to you, then this is a movie to recommend. Otherwise see it for the actors, not the story. Grady Harp

As a Newyorker, I refuse to believe that there are people in this city who swear so much that you absolutely can hardly understand a word of what they are saying. That was the case with this film in which Al Pacino (in another shout-fest villainous role) plays a betting chief who one day rescues a former NFL champion (played by Mattew McConaughey) who was abandoned by his father, from the eternal damnation known as working in a cubicle, by flying him out to Newyork and offering him a job as sports betting main protégé. It all seems too good to be true for Brandon Lang (McConaughey) who is suspicious of everything going on around him but allows himself to be recruited anyway. He starts well and climbs up the ladder with such lightening speed that in infuriates a former protégé played by Jeremy Piven whom Brandon eventually replaces. Everything about Al Pacino's sinister Walter Abrams is a test, he tests to the point of no return and eventually does himself in when Brandon (whom Walter makes over to be this alter ego character of John something...) walks away at the top of his game. Jamie King (ever the typecast slut) makes a cameo as a, yeah, you guessed it, slut. Rene Russo, who seems to get only better and more beautiful with age co-stars as Mrs. Abrams, a woman whom Brandon can hardly resist much to the dismay of her husband. And Armand Asante makes a special appearance as a weirdo mob type dude who relieves himself on McConaughey's character! Poor Matthew, here's hoping your payday was very shiny and green! As I said before, the swearing was a little bit much for me, and I'm a Newyorker, so there you go. The film was based on true life events that occurred in the life of the real Brandon Lang, a body building former pro-gambler whom you can see in the special features section of the DVD.

I am not a massive sports or sports movie fan. But then this film is more about gambling, ambition and greed.The main character is sucked in to a new and exciting world by Al Pacino's character who takes eccentric to new levels.The film is fairly slow and the plot flows along fairly gently, which is just as well because there really isn't a lot of substance to it.The characters are engaging and just enough happens to keep you interested.The majority of the film centres around the affect of success and the motivations that drive the successful on.This is good for an idle Sunday afternoon. Good performances and production but nothing special going on and no fireworks.

TWO FOR THE MONEY (2005) ** Al Pacino, Matthew McConaughey, Rene Russo, Armand Assante, Jeremy Piven, Jaime King. (Dir: DJ Caruso)"Jerry Maguire" meets "Wall Street" by way of "Boiler Room"Matthew McConaughey usually plays against his good ol' Texas country boy with aplomb and charisma but in his latest leading-man turn downplays that with deploying his cornpone good naturedess to the stressing point of credibility in this cross of "Jerry Maguire" meeting "Wall Street" by way of "Boiler Room" in this drama centering on sports betting cum morality play.Cast as a former football hopeful whose dreams were crushed by a nasty on field injury, Brandon Lang settles for cold-calling telemarketing scams that lead to brighter days when his knack for picking wins for professional sports, namely football (both college AND pro) catches the eye of hugely successful Brooklyn based numbers runner Walter Abrams (Pacino chomping at the bit in a juicy, bombastic turn) who woos the young turk to turn to the dark side by joining his team of bettors which leads Lang to become a hot shot with the unlikely sobriquet of "John Anthony", an alias Abrams creates for his golden goose.Abrams is an alleged Gambling Anonymous survivor who claims he hasn't made a professional bet in 18 years (yet is running an on the cusp of illegal gambling business) promise to his skeptical gorgeous wife Toni Morrow (the always welcome beauty Russo) who is wise to her loving husband and father to their little girl yet is wary about the corruption of his latest conquest in the form of the highly naïve Lang who claims he doesn't even bet on his picks (yet has no qualms in basking in the quick ascending glory of his new pricey digs and fast lifestyle).The film's main fallacy is that it is very predictable and that Lang cannot be that believable in being so gullible to the surrounding he's found himself trapped in and Abrams' true colors come out about the half-way mark where most films would have the protagonist questioning his morality when Lang instead continues to literally gamble his good senses for a huge fall to come: it's all in the matter of timing. The jerry-rigged script by scribe Dan Gilroy (whose last known credit was the god awful "Chasers" in 1994) allegedly based on a true story is marred by Caruso's ham fisted direction (he's responsible for the ludicrous Angelina Jolie serial killer junk flick "Taking Lives" last year) that has no grace or subtlety despite the fine acting by his leads. McConaughey effortlessly allows his IQ to take a beating for his not-too-swift character that finally grows a brain in the ridiculously paced final act (the trite edit of a on-the-line football game's last play with a face off between Pacino and Russo's marriage-on-the-brink confrontation is head-shakingly bad). Pacino meanwhile shifts from his garrulous full-of-vigor shark in lamb's clothing to Mamet echoes of his "Glengarry Glen Ross" Rick Roma in a show-stopping soliloquy at a Gamblers Anonymous meeting about the nature of losing is fun in its grandiosity; intensity like his should be bottled. Russo acquits herself nicely as she usually does by making her former addict survivor a resolve of understanding to a fault.What is unremarkable is just how familiar and easy to figure-down-the-line as to what will eventually happen ultimately is the biggest gambit and cheat for the audience. One only wishes the filmmakers had paid closer attention to the snappy chemistry between its leads that could've made this a "Hustler" type of fable.

Walter Abraham (Pacino) hires Brandon Lane (McConaughey) who has a talent for picking winners in Pro Football.We get to see a little bit of pro sports gambling in picking teams to win in pro football, and we get to see some of the emotions that go along with it. Walter has the most successful sports advising company in the nation, and becomes a father figure to Brandon and hangs his star on him because Brandon has the gift. Walter, Brandon and Tony (Ruso) all had terrible childhoods and now must stick together to make this work.I know Pacino is a good actor, but it seems to me that he likes to hear himself talk a little too much. In this movie, he never quits being "up." We needed a break from this from time to time, and it rarely came. He plays the part a little too flip for my money. Oh, yes, we still get his obligatory harrang when he visits a Gamblers Anonymous meeting and harasses the participants. That is his schtick and we must be prepared for it somewhere in the movie. Still, he is a good actor, but I think he needs to tone it down a notch. You see, he not only yelled in Brandon's ears, he yelled in ours too.There is a lot of language in here and the movie applauds it, encourages it, and displays it at every turn. That is annoying in the beginning, but after you hear it so often it seems to go away and you don't hear it so much, but it's still there, but not as annoying. Does this make sense? The rest of the cast is fine, and the story does move along pretty good, but does have its slow moments. We get the idea that a lot of people depend on the "pics" from a company like Walter has. Walter's company has a policy of pushing the client to the limit to get him to wager more money with their bookie (Walter's company get a percentage of what is wagered). When things are good, they are very good, but when things go bad people get hurt. Maybe this is the warning of this movie: don't depend too much on other people's advice, learn to depend more on yourself.

"There are two great pleasures in gambling: that of winning and that of losing." French proverb That all gamblers are losers we learn among other insights about betting in Two for the Money.If you want to see Al Pacino go over the top as Walter, the head of powerful football game "pick" empire, who hires former quarterback and 1-900 small-time betting success Brandon (Matthew Matthew McConaughey) to join him in big-time picking for clients who are serious losers, you won't see it. But you will see three accomplished actors, Pacino. McConaughey, and Rene Russo (as Walter's wife) live in their roles the way Burt Lancaster, Paul Newman, and Betty Davis, to name only three of the old timers, inhabited their roles and threw them in your face.If you wonder why rich people risk their fortunes on betting, this is the film to see; if you wonder about Hollywood's ability to depict a real marriage of two people who love each other despite the cataclysmic atmosphere of his profession, then become a believer by seeing an unusually rich and realistic film.The artistic unity is unusual. The notion of truthfully saying you're sorry is introduced in a tough guy scene, and then re-prised with Walter and his wife. Truth seems endangered in one scene then uncovered to be authentic in another (this pattern happens several times). Family values override money and ambition for the three major players; in Brandon's case, it becomes a matter of figuratively "Who's your father" while in Walter's it's "Who'll be your son?" (Chinese proverb: "At the gambling table, there are no fathers and sons.") The extreme fitness of Brandon counterpoints the weak heart of Walter, whose exercise is only making money. The heart is figurative as well as it becomes the final arbiter of happiness.The film is good enough to recall other successful works of art: For instance, the camera tracks through the "pick parlor" with its banks of computers recalling "Wall Street" and Michael Douglas's similar role to Pacino's; the shouting, manipulating sales operatives recall the real estate agents in "Glengary Glen Ross." The supercharged sports atmosphere is reminiscent of "Jerry Maguire" as is Cruise's vulnerable hotshot a template for McConaughey's.McConaughey fulfills his promise as a major star in a role seemingly made for him. Pacino dares you to want him to go over the top but shows you how he can control himself. This is Pacino at his best since Scent of a Woman. You can bet on it.

"Two for the Money" is a film based on the real life Brandon Lang (Matthew McConauhey), an ex-college athlete who had an amazing ability to predict football games. In fact, he's so good that a big-time player in New York, Walter (Al Pacino), contacts him and offers him a job. As for Walter, he owns a company that makes recommendations to gamblers....advising them who to pick for each week's games.At first, working for Walter is fun for Brandon. After all, Walter is a strangely charismatic guy, the money's great, and Brandon's ability to pick the right games make him a bit of a star. Soon, Brandon is making huge money, nor by gambling himself but by advising folks and taking a percentage of the winnings. He's living life large. But eventually, like all good things, things start to sour. What's next? See the film.This film is one that might not work for you. For me, it certainly didn't and for one big reason.... I didn't care one bit for the characters nor did I care what happened to them. If you love sports or sports betting, you might enjoy it a lot more. But I didn't...and just felt indifferent to what happened to everyone...at best.By the way, you'll either love Al Pacino or you'll hate him in the film. He's very bombastic (even for Pacino) and bigger than life...and you'll likely be mesmerized or feel he's overacting. I felt it was just too much.