The fact that I'd give any Steven Segal movie a 7 is a shock to me. But, I must admit, it's a good film and he actually was very well cast in the movie!When the story begins, the psychotic Executive Officer (Gary Busey) of the USS Missouri battleship (it's actually the USS Alabama in the movie) is planning on a party for the Commanding Officer. However, I did say he was psychotic and the man is actually in charge of bringing aboard some other psychotics so that they can take over the ship...a ship armed with nuclear and all sorts of other weapons! Fortunately, one of the few men not captured by the evil commandos is Ryback (Segal) and he apparently is more than a match for the hijackers!There are two minor problems with the movie that kept me from giving it a higher score. First, the film is essentially DIE HARD but on a ship instead of in an office building. Second, Erika Eleniak's character is simply terrible and it seemed obvious that she was tacked onto the script at the last minute. She had little reason for being there and her character was simply awfully written...at first whiny and proclaiming "I hate guns" and "I won't kill anyone" even after the killing starts....and then later, this stripper character suddenly becomes a commando-type!!! This makes no sense nor did most of her dialog.These problems not withstanding, it IS a very tense and entertaining film. Plus, Segal is perfectly cast as his aikido skills don't always make sense in his other films...but her in small confined spaces it worked well....and Segal also tended to mumble less than usual. Overall, a fun film....just turn off your brain and enjoy it, as such a story really could NOT happen but the filmmakers made it seem like it could.

Steven Segal's greatest movie ever. Bar none. Who could ever have sold the idea of an ex-Navy Seal-turned-cook could ever kick that much butt in any movie. No one. Segal's tongue in cheek performance was great, talking like he had something to prove in just about every line, trying not to crack a smile due to the cracker-jack dialogue that was created for this specific role. Tommy Lee Jones, Colm Meaney and Erika Eleniak were all okay in this film, but Segal was clearly what made this film. What especially made everything enjoyable in this film was the lack of artistry. This was purely for made fo the joke it is, a funny-bad delight that was supposed to impress us with stupid dialogue and big action. Chalk one up for the big guy.

Seagal is always just himself in every movie. He couldn't act to save his soul. You can either bare it, or you can't.However, with this film, you have a great everything else.While all of his other films are dated when I attempt to watch them, this one is still highly entertaining.Pacing is great. Story is great. Jones and Busey are great.Erika Eleniak sells her role, while being maximum eye candy.It's pretty much his only 'quality movie'; and it is despite him, not because of him.Even if you don't like him, give this one a shot.Entertaining from start to finish.Direction, to the music/sound - is all top notch.

An American action thriller; A story about a hostile takeover by terrorists of a battleship, the USS Missouri, which is about to be decommissioned. The band is led by a disgruntled ex-CIA operative, and a psychotic executive officer. An ex-Navy Seal who they hadn't planned for is aboard and intends to thwart them.
Nominated for two Academy awards in the sound category this film has some good tension, and is well-directed, making the most of its confined setting - every scene playing like a real event on a ship at sea. The story is absurd and formulaic though it is told with a certain wit and panache.

Steven Segal has very little to offer in the acting stakes. Like Jean-Claude Van Damme, he's a one-dimensional tough-guy: Bruce Willis without the gags and fags: the sort of right-minded no-nonsense hard-case that gives most normal men an inferiority complex, and feel guilty that they don't spend more time at the gym. It's down to the director to build enough interest around him during any movie within which he stars, to offset his lack of talent. Mostly, they don't work, unless you happen to be a fan of up-tight testosterone-topped Alpha males. 'Under Siege' does work. I suspect that is because Segal is outshone by the real star of the movie - the colossal American Battleship. Considering that these vessels were the very last of the WW2 giants, they have been a very under-utilised asset either from the standpoint of action movie or even documentary. Capital ships really were amazingly beautiful works of engineering art. Whatever one's views upon war may be, they have a grace and symmetry unequalled since the days of sail. And if I have a complaint about this movie, it is that we see too little of the ship, especially whole-vessel photography. What we do see is pretty unimaginative, and I suspect that this is because most of the shooting took place on a retired vessel that was permanently at anchor. Even so, I think a lot more could have been done. There is a very good cast adding additional tonnage to an othewise buoyant story. Tommy Lee Jones plays a manifestly deranged bad guy, leading a gang of sundry cut-throats who have hijacked the warship. Otherwise it's Segal's slaughter by stealth pass-card through and through. You must have seen it a dozen times by now. An additional and largely unnecessary dimension is added by a pneumatic blonde bimbo. She is (literally) a piece of party furniture and rises out of a cake with her flamboyant - one might even say bovine - assets presented to full effect. Her acting abilities are even worse than Segal's, and as she spends much of the movie in his company, he sometimes begins to look competent if only by contrast. And that's about it. Bad people get shot, stabbed, blown up and winnowed down to the their homicidal and treasonable leaders for the final and inevitable denouement. There's an equally inevitable heavy-rock incidental soundtrack to emphasise testosterone issues. And the all-American way prevails. But the movie is good fun for all of that. You are left in no doubt from the DVD cover that it's a Steven Segal vehicle. Just don't expect many surprises.

The last Steven Seagal film that I saw was "The Foreigner", which I can honestly say was the worst film I have seen for many years. It remains the only film I have reviewed for IMDb which I have awarded the minimum mark of 1/10.I was, therefore, pleasantly surprised by "Under Siege". Certainly, it is not a particularly good film, but compared with "The Foreigner" it looks like "Citizen Kane". A group of terrorists take over an American warship, the USS Missouri, hoping to steal its nuclear-tipped missiles, but are thwarted by Casey Ryback, a former Navy SEAL now working as the ship's cook. At first Ryback's only ally is Jordan Tate, a Playboy centrefold ("Miss July 1989"), who has flown out to the ship for the Captain's birthday celebrations, but he later has the assistance of a group of sailors he manages to rescue.The best acting performance comes from Tommy Lee Jones as the psychopathic leader of the terrorists, a former CIA agent turned rogue killer. Jones's contribution, however, is something of a mixed blessing. While it undoubtedly improves the overall quality of the film to have a gifted actor in a leading role, the contrast with Jones's abilities serves to underline by contrast the weakness of Seagal's performance. Seagal plays Ryback in his normal tight-lipped, laconic style, rarely allowing himself to show any emotions. His martial arts skills are much on display; his acting ones are more elusive. Erika Eleniak (who was herself Playboy's real Miss July 1989) confirms her hard-won rank of Bimbo, First Class, a rank gained during her years as one of the Baywatch girls. The transition from television star to genuine first-rate film star is often a difficult one; like most of her fellow Baywatch beauties Eleniak has an impressively long filmography, but few if any of the entries thereon have made much impression on the critics.One hopes that in real life security on an US warship would be much tighter than shown here; I was surprised both by the ease with which the terrorists took over the ship and by the ease with which Ryback and his allies recaptured it. Jordan seems magically transformed from a frightened young girl to a one who shows a good deal more courage under fire and skill with a weapon than one would expect from a woman with her particular CV. The film, however, is more about entertainment than about realism, like most films in this goodies-against-baddies tough-guy action-adventure genre. Despite (or perhaps because of) its implausible plots, frequently wooden acting and extreme levels of violence, it was a genre that became very popular in the late eighties and nineties, and remains popular today. This was the a genre that helped to make stars not only of the likes of Seagal, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jean-Claude Van Damm, but also of some rather more accomplished actors such as Mel Gibson.A year later, director Andrew Davis was to go on to achieve a great success with "The Fugitive", one of the best crime thrillers of the nineties and a film which also starred Tommy Lee Jones (as well as several other actors from "Under Siege"). "Under Siege" is nowhere near the class of the later film, but it is one of the more entertaining tough-guy adventures. It is not the best of the genre, but it is far from being the worst. 5/10

On board the Navy battleship USS Missouri, a group of terrorists use the rouse of a surprise party for the Captain as an opportunity to take control and start to load up the weapons – specifically tomahawks with nuclear tips. Lead by a bitter rouge CIA agent William Stranix, the group put their plan into action while the military struggles to formulate a fast response. Meanwhile, lowly cook Casey Ryback is locked in the meat locker for disobeying an order by the Commander but manages to get out and have the run of the ship. Luckily for him, but unluckily for the terrorists, Ryback also happens to be a trained Navy SEAL, working as a cook to serve out his time, and he doesn't like his cooking being interrupted by anyone.In the wake of Die Hard we were treated (and still are treated) to lots of reruns of the "one man against terrorists" scenario and this film was one of the better ones, also providing Steven Seagal with arguably his best film to date. Of course this is not too much of a recommendation given the poor standard of Seagal films and this derivative genre. However, for what it is, it moves pretty slickly and provides lots of men shooting and things going "boom" which, lets be honest, is all we're really here for. The plot can't compare to Die Hard because it doesn't share the link of the "common man" being the hero (if you can call John McClane a common man); instead Ryback is a trained killer and the plot quickly loses any vague touch with reality as his fight becomes more and more extreme. The action is still enjoyable though and, while it isn't a classic in the realms of Die Hard, it is still an enjoyable action film in an overdone genre.In terms of acting, nobody could accuse Seagal of being "good" but at least here he was at the "height" of his powers in a vehicle that suited him but also had a budget and style to work as a mainstream product. His lack of emotional range shows as he kneels over the body of his dead captain and looks like a man who has just missed his bus – annoyed but not THAT annoyed. However what he does do well is move and shoot – both skills the film has lots of for him to do and physically he is impressive. Eleniak should serve as a warning of the fleeting nature of a-list stardom for those that rely on looks alone. At the time she was the face (?) of Baywatch and on many people's bedroom walls and she plays an "actress" who is using her breasts to make a living – amazingly she plays it without a hint of irony. Looking back her dated haircut is hilarious and the fact that her breasts are the only thing that I can remember of her entire career to date is quite depressing. Jones and Busey can do crazy bad guys better than many people and they do it well here – especially Jones, who appears to be enjoying himself immensely.Overall this is an enjoyable action film as long as you know what you are getting into – it is not great but it is certainly one of the more enjoyable Seagal films and does manage to be a good entry in the genre and it was no surprise to me that Seagal came back for me in a less successful but equally as silly and enjoyable sequel.

Grab your popcorn, candy and soda and enjoy a good action flick. Lots of shoot'em up and martial arts action, don't worry too much about the plot or any holes in it. If you like 80-90's action movies, you will like this one.

I gave this movie a solid ten, and I stick with it. I'm not in particular a fan of Steven Seagal, though I don't arbitrarily hate him like many critics do. In fact, this was the first of his movies I'd seen, and I liked it immediately.For any people expecting this movie to deviate from the usual formula of (1): Seagal is wronged, (2): Seagal becomes killing machine, you'll be disappointed. Almost everything in this movie is to be expected, as Seagal plays his usual tough but lovable good guy who gets pushed just a bit too far and goes into full-on expert martial arts killer to enact revenge. A dozen or so people will die, as many or more limbs will be broken, and Seagal will do it all with as much emotion as a stick. To those expecting more of Seagal's usual stuff, that's what you'll get.But in my opinion, what we also get are some inexplicably high level bad guys for this outing. Although about a decade or two behind today's times (keeping in mind the film itself is a decade and a half old), the two antagonists are the well known actors Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey. While getting on in their age nowadays, these two were some of the most crazed and entertaining actors of the 70s and 80s. Jones is probably best known from The Fugitive, for which he won an academy award, while Gary Busey has done a boatload of famous, not-so famous, and video game voiceover work. Together, these veterans almost steal the show as they chew the scenery and provide Seagal's most colorful and charismatic characters. Busey is a former ship's commander who's willing to drown his crew simply to taunt Seagal, whereas Jones' character used to send body parts to his ex-bosses at the CIA before turning up here.The plot of this movie is that the two aforementioned crazies, with an entire crew of inside tech guys and hired muscle, have overtaken the aircraft carrier USS Missouri, with plans to extort various things from the big guys in Washington with the ship's small but capable arsenal of weapons at their disposal. The catch is that a high-ranking ex-navy seal is on the ship, serving a commuted sentence for misbehavior. Stuck here as the ship's cook, Seagal plays Casey Ryback who must do whatever he can to rally the ship back into responsible hands.Strangely enough, the movie departs in several ways from the regular formula. The aforementioned bad guys are not only one head honcho but two equally ambitious ones, as well as a capable force of a dozen or so armed men. But where one would expect Seagal to be alone, this time the film adds at least a little credibility to the mix: Seagal still raises hell, but he also has to get the help of several others stowed on the ship if he's to have any chance in operating its guns and other functions. In a film rooted in implausability, it's at least nice to see old Steve actually running around with some admitted help.The pace is interesting, as the early scenes in the movie set up some beautiful shots of the ship as well as some of its intricate interiors and set pieces. Some characters are the token one-line kills, but then there are some side characters who are given their own personality and a scene or two to take advantage of. Many characters from the aforementioned Fugitive (1993) make returns in this movie, as well as a decent character played by Colm Meaney, who was Miles 'O Brien to Star Trek fans.Probably the only annoying bit of this movie is the female lead, played by Playboy model Erika Eleniak. She does a serviceable job, shows her breasts for a minute like she's expected to, and sometimes comes across as a believable person. But for the most part, she's there to lend support to Seagal, and add a little comic repartee between them. I didn't really mind her until she had a silly turn as hero(ine) for a minute or two.But that's a minor quibble, in a film that I still love as being Seagal's most tight, interesting and energetic. It somehow seems more well written or polished than all his other efforts, and this is no doubt aided by the considerable time that is spent establishing the villains, who I've already noted as being the best Seagal's had to tackle. The sequel to this one was quite a letdown but still fun on its own, but in my opinion the original is Seagal's best and a great choice for those looking for some good old fashioned action heroics

When terrorists decide they need nuclear Tomahawk cruise missiles 'to sell like hot cakes,' they turn to the U.S.S. Missouri, the fastest and most powerful naval force ever to sail the seas... (The Missouri fired the first shots of the Gulf War... Her powerful 16' guns destroyed Iraqi bunkers... Her Tomahawk missiles rocketed deep into the heart of Baghdad.)As luck would have it, Chief Ryback (Steven Seagal) happens to be on board working as 'head cook.' Ryback is seen by all as a 'sorry-looking sailor' but his true identity as an ex-SEAL expert in martial arts, explosives, weapons, and tactics, is the Captain's best kept secret... There's supposed to be a 'surprise' birthday party for the Captain (Patrick O'Neal) but he is shot before he can even show up to the fiesta...The terrorists, a group of professional killers, under the guise of entertainers and musicians, get access to the U.S. battleship by a helicopter cleared to land on the vessel's last voyage by a heavy turncoat officer...Tommy Lee Jones is fabulous as the lunatic Hippie, a former CIA undercover operative, who is for a railing system to offload the missiles onto a submarine they will rendez-vous with...Gary Busey is (Krill) the commander graciously ready to give a 'surprise' to his captain... He is absolutely perfect as the maniac everyone loves to knock him down...Erika Eleniak is the beautiful Playboy centerfold who will knock you off your feet... Erika is hired to jump out topless of the cake and dance...If you like to see your favorite celebrity shooting an evil bad guy in the back, don't miss Andrew Davis' 'Under Siege,' a good entertaining movie, well directed, and very exciting...