Wow, wow, wow! 'Underworld' is an action-packed, visually stunning spectacle!As mentioned in my 'Underworld: Rise of the Lycans' review, it is best to view 'Rise' first, and then 'Underworld' - although 'Underworld' was the first film in the series. It makes more sense, since you will now have a much better background on Lucian. Lucian is the leader of the werewolves, and the antagonist (he was the protagonist in 'Rise of the Lycans').Centuries after Lucian became the Werewolf (Lycan) leader, the feud between vampires and werewolves still rages on. Lucian is trying to join vampire and werewolf blood to create a super species, but he needs the blood of a human, Michael Corvino, who is the direct descendent of the vampire/werewolf ancestor.'Underworld' features excellent performances from a very good cast - especially Bill Nighy as Viktor, and Kate Beckinsale as Selene. The make-up and visual effects are fantastic. There's loads of action, and incredible chase sequences, with stunning photography. This truly is a perfectly polished production. There never really is a dull moment - considering the film runs 132 minutes (I watched the extended version).This is non-stop action and entertainment from beginning to end. There's also more than enough suspense and horror for the horror buffs. 'Underworld' is an incredible action horror like no other. And the ending leaves you hungry for more!

Movies like Underworld just don't end up with the calibre of actor that Underworld has under normal circumstances. Somehow, Underworld did though, and yes, it's very much a product of that early '00s industrial inspired age, but it is a solid, solid take on some realistic(ish) aspects of supernatural monster mythos.

"Underworld" is no ordinary horror movie.  It tells the tale of a secret war between vampires and werewolves (or as they're called here, lycans).  Kate Beckinsale stars as Selene, a lethal assassin on the vampire side.  Scott Speedman plays Michael Corvin, a man who finds himself wrapped up in this brutal war.  This movie is rather well done, despite all the blood and graphic violence.  The look of the movie is dark, Gothic and brooding, which fits very well with the story.  The script is interesting, using science to bring the vampire and werewolf legends into the modern age (such as saying the lycans are allergic to silver).  The story of the bitter rivalry between to two mythic characters would make a fascinating prequel, and the sequel should follow "Underworld" with real impact as well.

I'm currently revisiting the Underworld series and have to state that the first movie has aged particuarly well. The stylish costumes still look incredibly sharp. The special effects don't look dated at all but rather have a timeless flow. The locations are perfect for an action movie with horror creatures. The lighting, sound and visual effects still offer a cinematic experience of the greatest kind. Even the nu metal soundtrack still blends in perfectly. This film represents the stylistics of its time while having achieved an outstanding legacy that has lead to the creation of four sequels so far.The story revolves around a human medical student named Michael who gets stalked, observed and attacked by a group of werewolves in a dark metro station. Vampire Selene intervenes and saves his life. She wonders why the werewolves have been following the young man while her immediate superior Kraven who fancies her is jealous of her sudden interest for a human being. Selene starts investigating on her own and saves Michael's life once more but he gets bitten by a werewolf. Despite the ongoing conflict between werewolves and vampires, Selene helps him once again as she is slowly falling in love with him. She soon discovers that Michael has a unique genetic strain that could allow him to become a vampire-werewolf hybrid. When Selene starts suspecting that Kraven is involved in a conspiracy with the pack of werewolves, she decides to awaken hibernating vampire elder Viktor who has always been a father figure for her as she seeks his advice. The growing conflicts quickly spiral out of control as Selene learns that nothing is as it appears to be.To keep it short, Underworld has stood the test of time and is one of the best action-horror movies ever made. Vampires and werewolves have never looked as stylish as in this franchise. The first entry oozes with atmosphere, convinces with a strong cast and features special effects that are still breathtaking nowadays. No matter if you are familiar with this franchise or haven't heard about it yet, now would be a good time to enjoy this timeless franchise that should immediately appeal both to fans of action and horror movies.

I can understand why some people were unwilling to give this movie a chance. I started out thinking, OK, so Anna Valerious from Van Helsing is now a female Blade! I was wrong! I also went in thinking it was going to be a push button movie with no real twists.Again I was wrong.I didn't really see the twist coming at the end (surprising, since I figured out who Kaiser Sosay was!) I liked this move for a lot of reasons. The darkness in the movie wasn't oppressive. The acting was good, and the story strong.I give it a 7 out of 10.

I still love this movie after all these years. The writers came up with a whole history of the war between the Lycans and Vampires. They really fleshed it out really well in the first three movies starting with this one. In fact, in this movie, you hear how Vampires and Lycans even came into existence, via Alexander Corvinus. The plot is absolutely there.Kate Beckinsale and Scott Speedman, have great chemistry. Selene is the "star character" of the movie and of the franchise. Wanting revenge against the Lycans for killing her entire family 600 hundred earlier. However, she finds out a few truths that change everything. Beckinsale really delivers everything that is needed for this character, including lots of awesome action.You may think there are weak points, like how the Vampires/Lycans are getting with all this stuff without being found out by humans, but later in the franchise series, you find out why that is. There is an established setting already. So sometimes you hear characters talk about other characters or events that happened. You almost feel like there could be several more prequels if they wanted. But they did a good job explaining everything as part of the plot.This movie serves the more modern goth-ish era when bands like Evanescence, Nightwish, Within Temptation were at the height of their careers. Selene in all black, long black coat, black hair, dark eyelashes, pale white skin fits the bill. I recommend it for people that like fantasy, vampire, goth, genre. This is the beginning of a continuing story. 10/10

One of the best movies ive ever watched.
Let me just say before i watched this i wasnt even fan of vampire/ww movies. But this just took me by suprize with amazing storyline and characterstoryline.If u havent watched the underwold movies i recommend them very strongly.

Selene(Kate Beckinsale) a vampire warrior and a death dealer, along with the rest of her kind, is in a war with the lycans and hunts them down and kills them. But things get complicated when a human(Scott Speedman) gets bitten by a lycan and Selene falls in love with him. Slowly she starts finding out about her past, how she became a vampire in the first place and why vampires and lycans hate each other. Now, this movie may sound and look good in the trailer but it definitely isn't. I like old-fashioned vampires, not vampires who wear leather pants, own guns and spend time on the internet. There was way to much action going on but not much of a story. This movie was very boring and too long and just a big waste of time. I would give Underworld 4/10, for some good scenes and because it could have been a better movie if it tried.

I first saw Underworld upon it's release in 2003 and honestly upon my first viewing of the film I thought it was just another generic vampire/werewolf action movie. A few years later the sequel (Underworld Evolution) (2006) was released and again I didn't really enjoy it all that much. Over the years more sequels were made that I didn't even bother watching after the first two. Since it's been almost eighteen years since I first watched Underworld. I decided to give the movie a second chance and watch the extended special edition on Blu Ray.Underworld tells the story of a modern coven of Vampires who after over one thousand years of war with their arch enemies the Lycan (Werewolves). The Vampires have hunted the Lycan to the brink of extinction. A vampire named Selena (Kate Beckinsale) uncovers a secret nest of Lycans hiding in the sewer lead by a powerful Lycan named Lucian (Michael Sheen) who was thought to be long dead. Selena brings the news to the Vampire leader who doesn't believe her leading to Selena breaking the rules and going solo so she can uncover the truth behind how Lucian survived and how he plans to end the war between the Vampires and the Lycan.Underworld is filled great looking action scenes of Vampires and Werewolves fighting with fangs and claws. Instead of using old fashioned weapons like wooden stakes and silver daggers. The Vampires shoot the Lycans with siliver bullets from modern day weapons like handguns and machine guns. They also use bullets with liquid silver in them that slowly kill the Lycans by entering silver into their bloodstream. Aswell as transforming into their Werewolf form and using their claws and teeth to kill the Vampires. The Lycans also use modern day guns with Ultraviolet bullets that burn the Vampires from the inside.There's plenty of blood and gore throughout the movie including things like decapitations, severed limbs, Werewolves being blown up leaving chucks of meat and body parts everywhere aswell as Vampires and Werewolves biting each other and humans. The body transformation from the Lycans human form to their Werewolf form is done well with great looking special effects and CGI especially by 2003 CGI standards. The Lycans always look like they are in extreme pain when transforming which adds to the transformation making it look and feel more intense and frightening.Kate Beckinsale is dressed in leather in every scene of the movie even when there's no action going on and she's just using a computer. The same goes for practically every character in this movie they all wear leather or black shirts with leather pants. The only time a character is without leather is when they take their shirt off or transform into a Werewolf.I'm not sure if it's due to nostalgia or my taste in movies changing over the years but upon my second viewing of Underworld after almost eighteen years I actually really enjoyed the movie this time around. I grew up in the late 90s early 2000s when movie's like (Blade) (1998) and (The Matrix) (1999) were extremely popular. That particular era of movies can be defined by four simple words leather, guns, brooding, angst. Watching Underworld now in 2021 I realise just how much this movie is a product of it's time and really if it was released just a few years earlier in the year 2000 this movie would of been a lot more popular. Sadly by 2003 these kind of movies had started to become all to familiar with audiences including myself.I highly recommend watching Underworld especially if you have never seen it before. If you have seen it before and you didn't enjoy it the first time around I recommend giving it a second chance especially if you grew up in the early 2000s.

Its a great movie but Kate in leather makes it a better movie, she is smoking in this.The story is pretty cool and gets well expanded upon throughout the sequels.Bill Nighy is tremendous.Its fun, sexy and full of marvellous monsters :)

As soon as I saw the preview to this film I wrote it off as a silly Matrix rip-off trying to attack a subject that is so tired (vampires/werewolves). I really never had any intention of seeing Underworld until my girlfriend, who saw it in theaters, repeatedly suggested I watch it.  After watching the DVD just now I must say that I enjoyed it a lot.  I was completely into the story, which is surprisingly rich and engaging.  One would have to be a bit naïve not to admit that Underworld does indeed borrow from a variety of action films, most notably The Matrix.  It should be obvious to any free-thinking person that none of the ideas present in Underworld are original, but what this film does well is take ideas that were established in the past and build on them more.  This is by no means a carbon copy of any of the films from which it borrows from.  Slow motion gun battles didn't originate with the Matrix films.  The most refreshing aspect of this movie is the story, which surprisingly has many layers and puts a totally fresh new spin on the vampire/werewolf stories.  This aspect, along with the excellent visual effects makes Underworld an enjoyable experience.  A sequel for this is inevitable, and I must say that I'm really looking forward to it.  Underworld was a very pleasant surprise. *** out of **** stars

The dazzling introduction to preternaturally perky, PVC-clad Death Dealing scream queen, Selene and her ceaseless battle against nocturnal, plague-spawned mythical beasts proved addictive! Villainously voluptuous Vamps and lurid Lycans throw down gruesomely in director, Les Wiseman's plasma pumped, super-slick S&M shoot 'em up! Tight buts, rifle butts and forbidden lusts abound decadently in this explosive, gloomily glamorous, darkly decorous 'Underworld', wherein grievously goring, sexily black-draped devilish divas and their hirsute, silver bullet-shredded nemeses vie bloodily for Alpha dominance!The creepy clique of elite, drop-dead gorgeous ghouls nightly alight for a fang-tastic, full-throttled, fur-flinging fight to the death! Kinky Kool killer, Kate Beckinsale's sinfully sinuous, Selene continually preys for high stakes in this toothsome game of thrones! Accept no pale imitations, 'Underworld' is a gun-happy, panther-paced, werewolf wrecking, vampire neckin', hyped-up horror hootenanny! The sinister spoils of this nocturnal war eludes the vainglorious vampire, Viktor (Bill Nighy), and previously enslaved, lower caste Lycans plan to shatter the sinister shackles of their servitude, to once again dominate the moonlit night! The Lycans brutal ascension being gorily kept in check by the bravura ballistic death-dealing of deliciously deadly death dealer, Selene.

This movie began what turned out to be a 5 movie long series.It has great acting for the most part. Very good casting and direction. The action scenes are pretty awesome though it has to be said the color scheme created for the movie is as big a star as anything else. The music is also a very good fit.Yes there are a certain amount of fairly cheesy elements to this. I also would of preferred more practical effects instead of the amount of CGI that was involved but that's just my personal taste.The movie holds pretty strong still.Recommended.

Amidst a generations old war between vampires and were-wolfs, Selene (Kate Bekensale, "Haunted", "Uncovered"), a sexy vamp, finds herself inexplicably romantically drawn to lycanthrope, Michael, whom she saves despite facing the ire of her own kind, and whom might just have the key to finally eat this decades long feud.An exercise in style over substance, this overly long, overtly (almost to the point of clownishly) melodramatic piece of fantasy action assembly-line product looks good but all is for naught as it lacks any kind of heart (or indeed brain). I truly tried to watch this flick with an open mind and choose to give it the benefit of the doubt. My friend loves this franchise, alas I had to come to the uncomforting conclusion that his taste in films is quite suspect to say the least. My Grade: D+