Two dead American soldiers from Vietnam resurface years later as nuclear machines that help take down terrorists. However when a nosy reporter starts snooping around she rekindles the memories of the soldiers, one wants to go home and the other wants to kill the other. Jean-Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren together in one film doesn't exactly bring up expectations of quality. However Universal Soldier manages to be far more entertaining than one would've guessed and not even in guilty pleasure way. The action is rather spectacular and while Van Damme and Lundgren are rather well suited to their parts. The secondary characters such as Jerry Orbach,Ed O'Ross and Ally Walker only provide our hero and villain with targets to shoot at but for mindless enjoyment, you can certainly do worse.* *1/2 out 4-(Pretty good)

This is one of the more ridiculous action films of the nineties. The girl in the film plays a reporter, and she is not appealing at all. Nor does she have any romantic interest with Van Damme.
The premise was the only intriguing part of this film, which tries to be too much at once and ultimately fails at everything.
I'd say Lundgren's character was the strong point. But he is not given enough screen time. The art direction and props are shoddy at best. More than that, you lose interest quickly.

It's one thick accent VS another thick accent when Jean Claude Van Damme and Dolph Lundgren start duking it out. Kickboxer and the former He-Man play two soldiers in Vietnam, Van Damme the down home nice guy Cajun boy and Lundgren a sadistic sergeant who has a fetish for ears. After a personal and political dispute regarding the execution of some Vietnam prisoners, Van Damme and Lundgren kill each other, but are preserved in ice and then resurrected years later as Universal Soldiers - Unisols for short - hi tech government weapons of mass destruction, and they are just two of a few. Naturally things go awry when the two remember their past, with the colonel in charge naturally refusing to take them off line when the scientists say they should be pulled for a systems check. Throw in Ally Walker as a sexy, sexually repressed reporter who doesn't work and play nice with others, and you've got the recipe for an engagingly trashy action film featuring the clash of titans who can barely speak English.Having grown up with Dolph Lundgren as He-Man in 1987's "Masters of the Universe", there's something extremely not kosher about watching him play a bad guy, especially with the way he relishes lines like "I'm all ears." Of course, the biggest stretch of the imagination is the idea that Jean Claude Van Damme could actually DEFEAT Dolph Lundgren. Oh well, just watch the violence.

So, the other day, on a lazy Sunday afternoon, I had some laundry to fold. I clicked on the TV to find something to fold to, and came across "Universal Soldier" just as it was starting.  What a perfect movie for laundry-folding.  You can look down, grab some socks, put them together, ball them up, look up, and you haven't missed a shred of plot or character development.  Because there isn't any.This movie follows action/ sci-fi formula so well that you could probably go to the laundry room, pull out whatever's in the dryer, then load it with wet clothes fresh from the washer, then load that with soiled garments, come back, and *still* be ahead of the film in the logic department.For those wondering, I did manage to get all my laundry done, so un-gripping was "Universal Soldier".

Universal Soldier starts in Vietnam where Private Luc Deveraux (Jean-Claude Van Damme) & his superior Sergeant Andrew Scott (Dolph Lundgren) get into an argument about killing innocent Vietnamese natives & end up killing each other instead. Jump forward twenty odd years & both Deveraux, Scott & several other dead US soldiers have been re-animated as living soldiers with superhuman powers & the ability to regenerate. Nosey network reporter Veronica Roberts (Ally Walker) discovers what the military is up to & threatens to break the story to the public, Colonel Perry (Ed O'Ross) can't risk that so sends Universal Soldiers Deveraux & Scott to kill her, remembering back to Vietnam Deveraux again stops Scott from killing an innocent person & in the process annoys Perry who orders both Deveraux & Roberts hunted down & killed...Directed by Roland Emmerich this obvious sci-fi action cash-in on the then recent success & popularity of both Robocop (1987) & Terminator 2: Judgment Day (1991) is actually a very enjoyable way to pass 100 odd minutes. The script by Richard Rothstein, Christopher Leitch & Dean Devlin takes prominent themes from both Robocop & Terminator 2 like the idea cybernetic type protagonists, plenty of full-on action scenes, lots of violence & profanity, a seemingly emotionless robot/soldier/cop used for corporate/military purposes that starts to regain some of their humanity as well as an attempt at a bit of social commentary & satire although these little stabs don't really hit the mark here & are a mild distraction at best. The whole film is set-up for a string of ever more ambitious set-piece action scenes & from that viewpoint Universal Soldier is all it sets out to be, an enjoyable fast paced sci-fi actioner that doesn't require too many brain cells to understand. The character's are a bit clichéd though like the reporter looking for a big story who stumbles upon more than she bargained for, the single minded military Colonel who puts the mission before anything else & a main bad guy who in this case turns out to be Sergeant Scott to chase the hero for rather tenuous reasons. It's all here, it all works very well, it's a lot of fun & there's plenty of dramatic incident if nothing else.Universal Soldier was Emmerich's break through film & has gone on to make such big budget fare like Stargate (1994), Independence Day (1996), the excellent (I don't care what anyone says) Godzilla (1998), The Day After Tomorrow (2004) & 10,000 B.C. (2008), his subsequent efforts have been considerably less bloody & violent than Universal Soldier though. He does a good job here, get the DVD version & watch it in full 2:35:1 widescreen & enjoy a stylish & well made film. There are several violent martial arts scenes, some good old bar room brawl style fights, several severed ears, there are plenty of gory gunshot wounds including a fair few head shots & a gory impaling. The action scenes are well put together from the bus chase to various shoot-outs to an exploding garage. According to the IMDb the working title for Universal Soldier was Crystal Knights, I am not sure how truthful that is because the title Crystal Knights means absolutely nothing when placed alongside the finished film which is maybe why they changed it but why call it Crystal Knights in the first place?With a supposed budget of about $23,000,000 this is very well made with good production values, special effects, photography & stunts. Shot in Arizona. The acting is OK, I've always liked JCVD & think he's fine in this & he gets to show of his naked bum again, Lundgren has never been a great actor but he does OK in a standard mad as a hatter bad guy role & the two can fight so all in all they make a good pairing. Ed O'Ross & Jerry Orbach from Law & Order (1991 - 2004) provide the acting talent. Looking through the credits it seems that Eric Norris has a small role & he is in fact the youngest son of 80's action star Chuck Norris! Why didn't the filmmakers just hire Chuck? I mean JCVD, Dolph Lundgren & Chuck Norris all in the same film? I am shaking just thinking about it...Universal Soldier is a great sci-fi action film that delivers both plenty of sci-fi & action just as it should, it's not the most deep or meaningful film ever but it sure entertains for 100 odd minutes & to be frank what more do you want? Followed by the made-for-telly Canadian productions Universal Soldier II: Brothers in Arms (1998) & Universal Soldier III: Unfinished Business (1998) & then a theatrically released sequel Universal Soldier: The Return (1999) for which JCVD returned as Luc Deveraux.

Well let me say this, when Dolph Lundgren is the best actor in the movie you know your in for a treat! How on earth did this piece of crap get made anyway. These are the reasons I didnt like this movie 1. The acting stinks so bad that the kids on Barney have a better chance of winning an Oscar! 2. The plot makes no sense whatsoever! Some key parts in the movie look like they were wrote by one of my 3 year old children!  3. The dialogue makes you want to wonder if you got the version for people who have problems with comprehending words that are longer than two syllables. The finale battle of the ... the... whatever they are looks like something from Power Rangers. And whats up with this "Uni Sol" thing! It sounds like the name of an air freshener or a toilet. No folks this is not a great or good or entertaining or fun movie. Its just pure crap!