Entertaining thriller about a crazed young computer geek who becomes the deranged moderator of his own "Kill With Me" live internet feed where he displays new victims being slowly tortured to death. The more hits he gets at his site, the faster the people featured on his webcam die. This is disturbing in making us realize what depths we've sunk to in our society, and what morbid curiosities can do. I especially liked that the 40-something Diane Lane is the star as the police woman who tries to apprehend the killer, instead of relying on the usual Jessica Alba or Sarah Michelle Gellar "honeys" of late. *** out of ****

This story of a crazed killer using hits on a website to "assist" him in his killings is a refreshing high tech twist on the what I call the "killer-thriller" type of film. Not all the computer gibberish is comprehensible to those of us--such as myself--who aren't computer geniuses, but the major or breakthrough plot points--the eye blinks for one, the early use of what is actually the GM Onstar system in her SUV for another--are carefully planted and credible.It's irrelevant to whom Diane Lane is married in real life, or who her mother in law is....what matters is that her performance here is top flight. She lets the makeup department avoid glamorizing her, and she comes across very convincingly as a 40 something woman professional highly competent in her job. I'm not a huge fan of hers (I recall her miscast role in the stinker "Must Like Dogs", but now I'm digressing, sorry) but her performance here is nuanced and top flight. Refreshingly, the filmic style is even vaguely evocative of those wonderful 1940's Film Noirs, with rainy nights and a generally dark patina. I hear Portland is a cold, rainy city, so setting the story there was a wise move for atmosphere.Some other writers have already made the point that is a bit amazing how the "bad guy" is sooo competent, and even hacks into her Saab's engine computer....but, hey, maybe its possible and even if it's not it still gives the film an exciting sequence. Not a masterpiece, but very much worth seeing....

Very clever villain and some really interesting strategies and manoeuvres to capture his victims. The plot is a bit cliche once revealed. However, there's enough to keep you engaged and it is at least watchable. I feel some bits could have been better and some decisions by characters seemed questionable but overall a decent film.

Diane Lane one of our better actresses is the STAR, The remaining members of cast are lesser known performers.This is another serial killer horror story & for the first 90 or so minutes of its 102 minute running time is interesting & good & should have warranted a higher rating.SPOILER The last 12 minutes ( 8 really plus 4 minutes of credits,) goes downhill. Why you ask. I will be a spoiler & tell you.The killer has our heroine in dire jeopardy. Isn't there a writer that can come up with a more original conclusion.There are a few scenes of simulated torture,to me they are not convincing as we know it is not real. A few years ago we had SEVEN the victims were all tortured, BUT what we saw was only make-up on the victims in photos on the autopsy table. To me that was more horrifying.Colin Hanks (Tom's son) has a nice role as a cop, the rest of cast names are unfamiliar to me, in most cases, BUT are good. Fine location cinematography supposedly in Portland OR.Ratings **1/2 (out of 4) 72 points (out of 100) IMDb 6 (out of 10)

So I thought I'd take a break from the Festival and get down to some regular screening of what some would deem as the usual products from the usual assembly line. Untraceable became that movie, because the poster here had Ebert giving it a positive rating, but everyone else I heard had panned it. Directed by Gregory Hoblit, who was at the helm of one of my favourite movies Frequency, I thought I'd give it a shot.The premise was interesting enough to appeal to geeks, at least some parts of it. A serial killer with the technical know-how sets up a site, and uses the power of the internet as well as the voyeuristic nature of the online denizens to aid in the kills, meaning the more hits the site receives during an online, live execution, the faster the victim will die. Needless to say should he slap an ad on the site, it'll rake him enough dough to retire. And the police can't do anything about it because of bureaucratic red tape in terms of jurisdictions, and of course, the killer being a gifted cracker.In the veins of torture porn movies, it does showcase some rather sick though innovative ways of brutally dispatching someone, although it doesn't resort to ramping up the gore element unnecessarily. There were some nifty visual effects and makeup, but for those weaned on the Saw franchise and its wannabes, then Untraceable doesn't provide anything new. So goes the usual cliché storyline of cops, led by Diane Lane's FBI Agent Jennifer Marsh, Colin Hanks' Agent Griffin Dowd and Portland Detective Eric Box (BIlly Burke), going after the elusive killer whose only presence is online, until it becomes personal and hits closer to home with the obvious plot development involving family and friends.But unlike its title, there's nothing much untraceable about this hunter and prey game, and provides you with very little connection or psychological challenge in outwitting, outlasting and outplaying each other. It doesn't attempt to build up the great "unknown" about the killer in a whodunnit fashion, and only weaves through a connection of convenience. However, Untraceable does have genuinely tension building moments, and you do find yourself sitting at the edge of your seat during certain segments, but that's about it, as the rest of the time, it's just plain sailing in expected waters.I felt that while it had some message to say about online netizens and anonymous chatter in general, it doesn't quite achieve what it had set out to do. You get to see snapshots of essentially a chatroom with its mindless discussions and terrible shorthand with typos, which probably is something you'd be accustomed to should you visit any chatroom anyway. Also, Hollywood still couldn't get away from designing some really snazzy login menus and user interfaces that end users in the real world will probably drool over, or laugh at its cumbersomeness.What really plummeted the movie to B-grade movie territory is the ending. No worries, no spoilers here, but really, it ended with plenty of bravado and the cheese was just too thick to swallow. Seriously, watching Diane Lane did whatever she did, sent my eyeballs rolling upwards sky high. Promising premise which didn't allow for its plot to keep pace.

This movie tries to hard to seem technically correct, and in doing that it kinda alienate a more technically oriented person. I see how the movie could be somehow entertaining to a person not very familiar with technology, but from a personal standpoint I found this movie to be extremely poor.There are a few things that are really obvious, and make the movie a really bad experience (warning - spoilers): 1. They could have stopped the website by contacting the major internet providers or ICANN and have the domain redirect to a black hole (similar to the Pakistani incident involving YouTube a few weeks ago). 2. The little girl has downloaded what seems to be a very obvious Playstation game onto a PC. You can see the fact it's a Playstation game from the control scheme on the screen (Circle, Square, X, Triangle). 3. Some of the computers used at work by the agents use trackballs instead of mice. I realize that trackballs look better and more techy, but no real "hacker" uses a trackball. 4. What kind of internet security expert gives full administrator privileges to their daughter, on the same computer they keep their work related files (Classified). 5. What kind of servers were exploited by this guy. I mean they had like 2-3 million hits a minute, with streaming video. I don't think that the dude infected a YouTube server farm. There is no way that a single server can handle all that traffic. And if there were multiple servers, there had to be a way to balance the traffic, which would be really tough. Exactly how many computers did he exploit, that blocking traffic from all those IPs was not an option. 6. There is no way to hack into somebody's car by remote. It has to be done from the car itself, and there is no way to program something like a power outage at a certain time. How did he power the satellite tracking if the entire car had no power ? If the car had no power, how was she able to stop and steer the car ? It should be extremely difficult to control a vehicle without power steering and power brakes.I am sure there are other tech glitches I do not remember at this time, but I am sure they were not as obvious.I did not enjoy this movie at all, because it tried to hard to be technologically correct. I am sure other people will enjoy the movie (I thought there was some hope for the movie in the less techy parts). If you're a geek I strongly don't recommend it, unless you want to see some tech comedy. Everyone else, give it a try. You might like it.

That is the one word I will tell you perfectly sums up and describes my opinions towards this awesome film and it's bogus reception. Untraceable was a suspenseful thriller with great action, fun death strategies, and wonderful acting, that has a ridiculous amount of unappreciative reviews and hate aimed at it in all the areas that a lot of people have no problems with in other movies.Diane Lane was a great actress in this film. As I have said, the performances are excellent, and she of course gives the best and she made the movie totally believable and enjoyable. While there were of course flaws, I found the story line and the movie itself to be great entertainment. I found myself yelling at the screen and telling the people in the film what to do, and I am not that interested in a film unless it manages to get my adrenaline up, which I find as a positive factor in few cases whilst viewing a movie.There were things I found predictable, and of course the film gets a little out of hand at times, which as I said, it's not flawless, but it wasn't meant to be, and most of the time I was so interested in the movie that I wasn't making any presumptions or criticizing the faults. This was a wonderful film, that is under appreciated and if you haven't seen it, I recommend you do if you are capable of being lenient on these sorts of films.