It's been quite a few years since I first saw V for Vendetta. I didn't see it at release, because I was far under the age demographic at that time, but I managed to catch up to the film at around 2011-2012. Not sure the exact year, but I was a teenager at the time, and I loved the Matrix (still do), and heard that V for Vendetta was written by the Wachowskis, so I thought I'd give it a shot.It blew me away in many ways, and I credit the film as being part of the reason I became less homophobic and bigoted in many ways. It was the first time I saw homosexuality in a direct and positive light in the media, and it helped me immensely in establishing my more left-leaning views in the Christian world I was raised in.It's for this reason I have a very deep and personal relationship with this film, but I love the film at a more enjoyable level as well. This film oozes with style. Everything from the cinematography and sound design, to the ways characters speak and act. The rather sparse use of fight scenes (in comparison to other action films of its ilk), opting rather to use political thriller tropes and character development, surprised me the first time I watched it, but even though the film wasn't as action packed as films like The Matrix or Equilibrium (both of which have massive third act spectacles) the action I feel is much more effective and emotional than either of those films (ironic, since Equilibrium is about emotion). While short, the final fight scene between V and Creedy's men is an incredible burst of ecstatic visceral action that makes the entire film worth it.You can say there are three main characters in this film. There's V, the titular anarchist vigilante, Evey, the young woman who is kidnapped, and slowly falls for V in a more violent twist of Beauty and the Beast, and there's Detective Finch, a government employee tasked to finding and unmasking V, and during this task discovering that his beloved government isn't as noble as it may seem. Each of these characters is given a fair and due amount of screen time, and they each have a full and satisfactory character arc. I find how well written and edited this film is to be incredibly impressive, and writing this I want to watch the film all over again just to appreciate it more.There is something to be said, however, about the differences between the film and the original graphic novel written by Alan Moore. I haven't read the original comic, but judging by Alan Moore's distaste of films inspired by his work, and the fact that he refused to watch the film after reading the script, maybe this film isn't for fans of the original work. There's a great comparison video by CineFix on Youtube comparing the film to the novel, and they are very very different from each other. One notable difference is that the portrayal of V vs the dictator Sutler is much more nuanced and less Black and white in the novel than in the film, and that is a very well deserved critique of the film. I do not claim that V for Vendetta is the best film ever made. I haven't even scraped the surface of world cinema and cinema history to ever make that claim. However I can definitely say that V for Vendetta is, at least for the time being, the most personally meaningful movie, and the most enjoyable movie, I have ever seen. Mad Max Fury Road did get close though.

Here we are, 2021, almost 2022Do I even need to explain why this movie is of the most importance?Watch itUnderstand itKnow how a fascist state is born, nurtured, and risesAnd now look aroundYes, you may thank me later, if it is still allowed by then.

First, I have to give credit and praise the team behind this film, for releasing a movie so politicly powerful and sharing a strong message how "we", as "we" the people living in our country shouldn't be afraid of our governments 4/5 years after 9/11 and during the massive political protests in many countries around the world.It is sad to think that 15 years later in this rough, chaotic 2020, when I saw this movie for the first time, I realized that my countries government isn't far away of being like the government presented as a villain in a fictional, sci-fi, DC made film based on a graphic novel. Hope that in the future things will change for the better, but we should not stand low and keep on fighting.The movies writing and characters have so much emotion, care and love put into them. The plot and the story are powerful, heartwarming yet entertaining. Action is well filmed and exciting. And the acting is just, WoW! Hugo Weaving kills it as V, and Natalie Portman's character Evie's growth through the story from beginning to end was so well done that id had me tearing up!In my opinion, a MUST WATCH! Honestly my favorite DC movie ( yes, love it more than the Dark Knight ) and one of my top 5 favorite movies.A perfect 10/10 from me.

V for Vendetta is still after all these years one of my favorite movies to watch, and I find it as relevant today as it was whenever it was released in 2005. It is a story about a freedom fighter whose goal is to take down a totalitarian government that uses fear and deceit to control its people. To do this, he knows that one man is not enough to accomplish such a monumental feat and that he will need to use something that cant be silenced, hurt, or killed. he sets out with the goal of planting the idea of revolution in the people because, as he says in the movie "Ideas are bulletproof." 
One of my favorite things about this movie is that the main character is wearing a solid mask. It is a fantastic display of acting, both voices acting as well as physical. I guess you could say that I found myself not liking the character as much as I loved the idea of the character. The writers and director did an amazing job of drawing me into the storyline by mirroring enough of the world we live in today that I felt that the world I was watching on the screen could very easily enough being the world I live in one day. I saw myself in many of the characters and identified with their blind devotion to their country, their developing distrust of their government, and their inner conflict of trying to rationalize the two. 
Hugo Weaving plays the leading role of V and delivers and an unbelievable performance from behind a mask. Natalie Portman plays the role of V's sidekick, love, and accomplice. Stephen Rea plays the detective that is hell-bent on finding out the truth even if that means he must accept that all his life he has been on the wrong side. Many other great actors help director James McTeigue bring The Wachowski Brothers V for Vendetta to life. It is definitely worth your time. Please watch and enjoy this movie,

This great film is more relevant now than when it was made in 2006!Flawless acting by everyone but stand outs are Hugo Weaving,Natalie Portman and John Hurt.The film is poetic in its dialogue,the action scenes are exceptional. This film will make you think. With the rise of social media,the print and T,V media being more partisan than its ever been and our every move being monitored . We are living in V For Vendetta
A movie way before its time. Frightening and eerily realistic!

V for Vendetta: 6 out of 10: Ah the law of unintended consequences. You seek to adapt a 1982 graphic novel about Thatcherism and convert it to a too clever by half attack on the Bush administration and the war on Terror and you end up with a love sonnet to Timothy McVeigh. Uh-oh.V is Timothy McVeigh from the fertilizer bombs to the horrible Waco style fire flashbacks it is of all people McVeigh behind that mask. (In reality Guy Fawkes and McVeigh shared a similar philosophy. The only difference being Fawkes is famous for failing.) Now obviously the filmmakers were to busy ripping off 1984 and Phantom of the Opera to notice this. The film itself is actually quite entertaining in a mindless sort of way. The script is full of self-referential pseudo intellectual quotes and all the cute little British people say things like bullocks. (I have never actually heard an Englishman say bullocks anywhere besides an album cover. It's interesting to note that the British press hated this film with a passion unmatched by any in recent history. I guess they aren't as pro bombing of Government buildings as Americans are.)The films bad guys are all evil mustache twitching, child raping psychopaths while the good guys are all innocent liberals. The idea mind you that the people will automatically rise up and support the bomber against the big bad government is a fantasy right up with we will be greeted as liberators and Jodie Foster will love me if I shoot the President. Needless to say nuance doesn't enter into the picture.Which is a shame because the movie had a good chance to really make a statement had it been willing to go off the rails a little bit (pun intended) and put some shading on these characters. In all fairness to the filmmakers Timothy McVeigh was also a pretty one sided character. The only difference is where I come from he is the bad guy.