It is too underrated and that is unfortunate; it has suspense, drama, and Tom Cruise's performance is excellent; it is highly recommended.Its score of 4.5 on Filmaffinity is completely RIDICULOUS.

This movie made a huge impact on me. When I saw it, and then saw it again numerous times on DVD, I was always very emotionally disturbed by the deep places the movie goes.I never thought about Tom Cruise being an insane murderer, driven to extremes because of his guilt.To me, the central message of the movie is that one moment in life, ONE moment, can change things forever. It's a life lesson that smacks you in the face like brick. For David, the one moment is that he has treated this girl like a toy, with no respect, and she's hurt by it, and in her rage and love for him, angrily tries to kill them both because it hurts too much. She can't stand being his love puppet any more. She WANTS to be taken seriously by him, but to David, she's just a toy.And I absolutely love the way this movie weaves in modern technology as a possible way "out" of a bad reality that we have created for ourselves through our own rash decisions. It shows a potentially frightening future of being able to "live how we wanted to" after we die, through a prolonged filtered dream life.To me, this movie is really a mix of techno future, drama, alternate reality, and maybe even slightly fantasy. Not at all a psychological thriller/murder mystery in the least! What happens between him and Sophia, or the supposed murder, is secondary to the central theme of trying to alter one's real life through suicide induced "after-life".I see this as a kind of a "Heavy Metal" type graphic novel fantasy story, in which a young man who has a devastating accident and can no longer handle the loneliness and pain of living as a disfigured mutation in society. In desperation, he turns to prolonging his life after he commits suicide, and does it in a very haunting way, the "lucid dream" in which he can have whomever he wants as a lover, have whatever life he wants, or should have had if things had not gone so wrong.I don't think that the tech support man at the end of the movie ruins anything....in fact I like that he explains what happened to David. To me the explanation makes the whole fabric of the story that much more haunting.To me, the plot was actually pretty straightforward. And I personally feel that his life was completely real up until the point he committed suicide. At that point the company that froze his body switched on the "lucid dream option", which begins by Sophia accepting his disfigurement and picking him up off the street and taking him in(the point where David's life is over, and the lucid dream kicks in), and they fall in love all over again. What a lot of movie goers failed to grasp was that David was not DREAMING or hallucinating what he wanted in life while he was still alive....but that half of the movie actually takes place with him already dead.And another thing that movie goers really failed to grasp onto....was that all that was really happening in the second half of the movie was what the tech guy said it was..a GLITCH! And I love that concept! That maybe the company hadn't worked out fully the technology of the lucid dream, and that things could go wrong in this death/dream state. That's why tech support had to go in and enter David's world just like another character.I mean think about it...if you are already in a lucid dream state, the only way tech support could reach you is to enter your dream state and explain what is going wrong! I think of it like a very, very weird type of internet support, except YOU are the subject of tech, and the glitch is in your head.So, for me this movie is a fantastic vision of the regrets we have in life, and the decisions that led up to those regrets, and...and what if.....what if we could actually have a way to take the consequences away, to take the pain away? That girl that slipped away? That job we didn't take? That thing we wanted to say, but never said before our father died? Make it all better? And, what if while we tried to do that, something went wrong with the technology? I just think that simple premise alone makes Vanilla Sky a haunting masterpiece.Mike H.

Rewatched Vanilla Sky after 15 years. I recall not liking it the first time but since I was a young college student, maybe I just didn't "get it." It has also been getting heavily pushed for some reason on Amazon so I figured I'd give it another try.Well... What an ultimate narcissistic circle jerk god aweful film!!! Be rich enough to forget about your problems, even if your inner mind wants to murder people! My opinion stands. Good job, younger me. The only redeeming quality is a very young and under utilized Michael Shannon.I truly wish I could jump off of a building and reset my brain, just like our lead nepo baby, so I could forget the past 136 minutes of my life.

I`ve never seen the Spanish movie ABRE LOS OJOS on which VANILLA SKY is based but do recall that everyone who has seen the original European movie destest this Hollywood remake . I will be honest in saying that I absolutely loved this version first time I saw it . In fact it came close to beating BLACK HAWK DOWN as my second favourite release from 2001 ( FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING being my outstanding favourite movie from that year ) but then when I saw it a second time I was far less impressed ***** POSSIBLE SPOILER ***** Because the plot twist at the end this is not a movie that stands up to repeated viewing . In many ways it`s like watching a whodunnit where you know fine well who the murderer is which means all the suspense of working out what`s happening to Tom Cruise`s character has totally evaporated , it`s to all intents and purposes a one trick pony . It should also be pointed out that by 2001 the premise of this movie was starting to go stale since the central idea of TOTAL RECALL and THE MATRIX and its sequels have similar ideas , and watching it again I do get the impression that it`s a rather shallow film despite - Or because of - the director putting in a large amount of pop culture into the proceedings . I should also point out Tom Cruise seems to have a problem playing such a bitter and twisted character , yeah he was a revelation in BORN ON THE FOURTH OF JULY but can`t seem able to inject enough anger onto his on screen performance here
But no doubt a lot of women hired this on video simply because it starred Cruise . It`s not really fair that one man can be so good looking especially since the only film star this reviewer resembles is Gollum from THE TWO TOWERS . I can`t help also noticing that most of the comments from people who hate this movie are male . I honestly believe this comes down to wives watching this on video in the comfort of their home , dragging their husband to bed as soon as the closing credits start , making wild passionate love and screaming " TOM " at that most intimate climatic moment . Well Ive got a question for you ladies - Who do you think your husband was fantasizing about during that mind blowing sex session ? Was it Penelope Cruz or was it Cameron Diaz ?

Cameron Crowe's Vanilla Sky leads you on an incredibly picturesque journey into the life of a wealthy publishing heir, played with impressive emotional heft by Tom Cruise. He once had an idyllic life that gave way to some tragic events, and is now in a way station of existential despair, lamenting his sad tale to a sympathetic psychiatrist (Kurt Russell) and daydreaming of his gleaming past. Crowe's films always have an impossibly bright, strikingly beautiful sheen in their composition, displayed here by a distinct urge to forge the melodrama, and melancholy not with dark, muted tones like some craftsmen might, but to keep a vibrantly lit, dreamy aesthetic that never lets go of beauty, even in dark places. Cruise is forced to contend with a jilted, unstable lover (Cameron Diaz) whilst pursuing his angelic dream girl (Penelope Cruz) into realms of thought, feeling and action that ripple through his life like scintillating reflections in a sunlit meadow pond. I'm purposefully being vague and poetic as not to disturb the veil hanging over plot and resolution, for the surprises which lay in wait for you are a riveting rop-a-dope and should be explored with a blank canvas of expectation and complete lack of any previous knowledge about the story. The supporting cast sees very memorable work from Timothy Spall, Jason Lee, Alicia Witt, Tilda Swinton, Michael Shannon, Ivana Milicivec, Johnny Galecki, W. Earl Brown, Tommy Lee and Noah Taylor. Cruise is compelling, finding the confused soul in his creation, Diaz scares wonderfully as the unpredictable live wire, but Cruz steals the show with her usual sweet disposition. This film is based on a Spanish one called "Abre Los Ojos" which also starred Cruz in the same role she plays here. This, however, is the superior version, for me a masterpiece and a personal favourite. Crowe makes poetry of light and colour, painting visual splendour that flows flawlessly in tandem with the achingly beautiful soundtrack, another aspect of film he always excels in. And as for the deep well of secrets that is the story? I'll tell you in another life, when we are both cats.

This film is absolutely mind-blowing fantastic.I originally watched the Spanish "Abre Los Ojos" with English subtitles. I feel the plot came together better at the end of the Spanish film for some reason.But with Vanilla Sky, it felt more human and relatable.In a world where everyone's goal seems to be to seek happiness (be rich, in love, hedonistic pleasures), what about if you were really given that option with modern future technology to put your brain into a permanent dream-state to enjoy those things. There is something about real life, the sourness with the sweetness, that is irreplaceable.Abre Los Ojos made me really appreciate the plot and the concept that the world can be dream-like where you choose everything that is happening.But Vanilla Sky made me appreciate more the need for authenticity of real life. Somehow a magical life where you are the star of the show and have everything seems to lack meaning.This film is so superb that words fail me. Please watch it.It's a film that makes you feel good for being alive no matter what is going on in your life, like waking up from a nightmare.

Brilliant from start to finish. One of the top movies of all time.