Watching Mick Jackson's disaster flick, in which the eponymous natural disaster wreaks havoc throughout Los Angeles, is like watching a 3 a.m. infomercial. It's such silly, mindless fluff, yet there's just something about it that keeps your eyes glued to the screen."Volcano" is admittedly well-cast and acted, despite a dreadful script and a plot whose summary could fit on a matchbook. Tommy Lee Jones, who would give 110% making a McDonald's commercial, stars as Mike Roark, the hard-boiled head of the Office of Emergency Management, where he is assisted by his sidekick Emmit (Don Cheadle). After initially pooh-poohing the thought of a volcano in L.A. from geologist Amy Barnes (Anne Heche, who constantly ends her lines with a four-letter word like a period after a sentence), it's only a matter of time before he is proved wrong before his very eyes. Other solid performances come from Jacqueline Kim (Dr. Calder), John Carroll Lynch (Stan, the oft-maligned subway boss), and Keith David, a great actor who is otherwise wasted here in a role as a police lieutenant who has no impact on any events in the film, which is halfway over before he even appears on screen for the first time.However, there's the small problem of having something resembling a good story to go with the awesome visuals, which are indeed spectacular. But forget the volcano; Jerome Armstrong's script poses the greatest threat to the characters. To put it mildly, it's the biggest piece of cliché-ridden muck to come along in awhile, laden with plot holes, smarmy sentimentality (the offender here being a dog rescue scene near the beginning) and heroics, forced we-are-all-brothers morals, and implausibilities. Yes, this film is rooted far from reality, but it should make a little sense along the way.
Working at the OEM must be the cushiest job in the world, for all the employees do throughout the picture is holler at each other and stare blankly at computer monitors. (And why do they continuously show news broadcasts on their big screen? Is that where their disaster briefings come from?) Mike's sullen daughter (Gaby Hoffmann, in a thankless role in the tradition of "True Lies" and "Face/Off"), due to her own incompetence, is suddenly thrust into peril and is thus separated from her father, a subplot that helps build up what turns out to be one great big joke of an ending. Describing it here can't do it justice. (After being taken to the hospital in Dr. Calder's Land Rover to receive treatment for a second-degree burn on her right leg, she is seen some time later with a bloody scab on her left cheek as she talks to Mike on the phone. And you thought your HMO was rough.) Plus, I seriously doubt that someone who jumps right into a pool of hot lava would slowly melt like a snowman in Miami while he screams and tosses the body of a man nearly twice his size to safety from a burning subway train. Then there's the wonderful family-oriented scene of two firemen burned alive in their overturned truck.And, lest we forget that "Volcano" takes place in L.A., there's the obligatory racist-cop episode in which a black man asking the fire chief to help his neighborhood is suddenly handcuffed out of nowhere by an officer for "harassing" him, a tacky scene complete with (groan) references to Rodney King and Mark Fuhrman. (The whole time he's cuffed, the black man makes carefree wisecracks to the officers all while his 'hood is burning to cinders.) But, of course, everything's eventually resolved. "You're a good man," the other cop praises his partner after the latter grudgingly dispatches fire trucks to the black man's neighborhood, as if he has performed some immense display of generosity.In another lovely homage to L.A., there's also a looting scene, where extras run incredibly slow while carrying empty boxes.And what in the world was with the constant barrage of news reporters? Did we really need someone reporting "The house behind me has just exploded into flames...all hell is breaking loose!" while people were running for their lives all around her? As the volcano explodes out of the La Brea Tar Pits and lava is running onto the street, it's from a reporter describing this sight from where we hear one of the worst lines in the film: "It's as if the tar had caught fire, melted and somehow expanded." Hey, McFly, if tar is already a liquid to begin with, then how in the world can it melt?
When an army of helicopters drops gallons of water on the lava blocked off on Wilshire, the reporters and camera crews, who are camped right up against the concrete barriers, manage to stay conveniently dry the entire time.Despite a high body count, scores of injured civilians and billions of dollars in damages, everybody's smiling as soon as a rainfall ensues, like those 7up commercials circa 1986. ("Feels so good comin' down!" Remember that?) Lots of questions are left unanswered: How will they clean up and repair everything? Will a future eruption occur soon? Will the Cubs win the World Series?Yet for all its pretentiousness and gaping flaws, I have to admit that "Volcano" was entertaining. It's a load of escapist camp that doesn't have a care in the world. And I do have to give credit where it's due; somehow the filmmakers managed to keep slow-moving lava exciting for 104 minutes.
Plus, you can't help but get a kick out of a disaster film that includes the line "This city's finally paying for its arrogance," and finds the time to include a Bible quotation. 7/10

I'm not going to pretend that this movie is realistic. It isn't. But if you want to just sit down and watch a film with action, drama and entertaining characters, then this is the film for you.Most disaster films are unrealistic, have no science behind them and if you think about them too much just get worse and worse. This movie is no exception. However, it is still a brilliant film if you want to sit down and not think too hard, or if you want to put a movie on without having to give it your full concentration. Personally, I think this film is great. There are better films out there, including better disaster films, but there are so many films that are ten times worse yet get better reviews. That's probably because they have better actors or are more realistic - but the job of a movie is to entertain, and this film does that brilliantly.

As a Big Budget movie, I'm sure that "Volcano" took more than a few months to make.  Too bad someone associated with the movie didn't take that time to wander into the local library (the children's section, perhaps), and check out a book on "Volcanoes".  I've seen Saturday-morning cartoons that have a better understanding of lava.Instead we get many scenes of outright stupidity that would challenge even the densest of viewers.  In one scene, Tommy Lee Jones and an assistant are standing near a volcanic vent, and their protective suits start to melt (of course skin is stronger than a protective suit, so they escape unharmed). But in numerous later scenes, people walk by lava like you might walk past a lake.  Maybe this is because no one seems to know it's lava.  I lost count of how many times a character said something like "What is that stuff?" or "There's something really hot and glowing coming down the street, and things are melting into it.  Wonder what it could be?"In what has to be one of the worst scenes ever filmed, two characters load an injured man onto the outstretched ladder of a hook & ladder truck. Then they hang onto a dangling fire hose as the ladder is lifted above the lava. The heat is so intense that the fire hose SPONTANEOUSLY COMBUSTS, but our characters are unhurt (their boots smoke a little).  I didn't know that fire hoses were so flammable...But "Volcano"is not just a dumb disaster flick with bad science.  No! It's also a Socially-Important Commentary on our Society Movie!  Throughout the film there are numerous "social messages".  These are so corny and contrived that they could only have been written by people who have never actually experienced them.  A racist cop tries to arrest a guy for assault (in the middle of a disaster scene!), but then the two team up to help save the day. Aww.  Later, a little kid notes that "everybody looks the same" when covered by ash and soot.  Aww.  America's racial troubles could be ended, if only a giant volcano threatened us all.More?  Oh sure, there's more!  Tommy Lee Jones is the too-hard-working dad who comes to value his daughter.  Said daughter is a selfish brat who learns some responsibility, and respect for her dad.  There's a guy whose only role in the movie is to say obviously insulting things.  This makes him the "bad guy".  One can see the writers of this movie hammering his role out:  "We need someone who's rich and yuppie-like and snooty.  Someone like us, only not as enlightened.  Someone who wouldn't make a Socially-Important Commentary on our Society Movie like we are!"  Of course, bad things happen to him and all is right with the world.In the end, the mysterious, glowing, sometimes-hot substance we come to know as "lava" is channeled into the sea, and all of LA lives happily ever after in a just and fair world.  A world, of course, with a big smoking volcano plopped down into the middle of it.  Certainly that won't affect the real estate values?The lessons of this movie are quite clear.  1) lava is harmless if you don't touch it; 2) small children will inevitably wander into incredible harm (but emerge OK), and 3) only through the trauma of sudden volcanic activity will we come to appreciate the true Brotherhood of Man.Whoever thought up this movie should be thrown into a volcano...

2 words make this one of the worse movies I have ever seen: Gabby Hoffman. My god she was beyond annoying. One of the whiniest, wimpy, grating kid performances in history of movies. Take her away and this is a fun B movie that leaves you entertained for a bit. With Gabby this movie becomes grating. Best example is when she cannot run away from the lava that a baby could crawl away from. God I was hoping she would die in that scene. Didn't happen and her performance just got worse as the movie moved along. If you can tune her out the movie is fun. I just couldn't tune her out though and I could not enjoy the movie. So take away one performance and the movie is enjoyable. Leave that one performance in and the movie is terrible.

Hahahahah Probably one of the funniest movies i've even seen. Obviously this isn't intentional though. It takes about half the movie for the main characters to realize what the big hilly thing is in the middle of the city is spewing hot red stuff, and the other half spent diverting the lave flow through the city using fire trucks (yer right). It certainly made me laugh. The acting makes Arnie look like a RSC thespian. It is amazing that films like this get commissioned. A more interesting version would be someone going near an active volcano and filming it, and would probably cost about £20 to make. ($40) I can see some guy pitching the film to a film company "well there's this big VOLCANO and it erupts in a CITY....pretty radical hey" If you can find it in the dollar bins, maybe worth buying as after watching this most other films would look good.

One of the most insufferably boring and humorless disaster films ever committed to celluloid. Makes admittedly mediocre and predictable rival volcano movie - Dante's Peak- look like a masterpiece. It's not even camp or scary and almost every actor is unbearably annoying (though the teenage daughter of the main character that behaves like a 6 year old takes the cake as one of the most annoying children in the history of film). At least in the 70s they used to have funny fashions, campy dialogues and all-star casts. One drank Ava Gardner is worth more than the entire cast and crew of this film combined.

This movie has a lot of problems. Bad acting, boring characters, impossible situations and it's hard to take the movie seriously when the characters do so many stupid things.A guy who melts from his feet up to his head without toppling over in the lava. Tommy Lee Jones and the woman's shoes are smoking from the heat of the lava beneath them, yet the shoes themselves seems to not remain hot after they are dropped on solid ground. Seismologists who thinks it's a brilliant idea to go alone at 4 AM to investigate a place where several workers have boiled to death from heat. One of said seismologists who thinks it's smart to sit right above a crack in the ground where the steam has come from. Blowing up a huge building in 20 minutes. Apparently blocks of concrete in shape of a horseshoe will stop the lava from flowing around the edges of it? It's as if the movie expects me to be stupid enough to believe all of that works and it's quite creepy. In a sense, I have to become more dumb to enjoy the movie.Kelly (Tommy Lee Jones characters daughter in the movie) is the reason why I lowered the stars from 3 to 2. Gaby Hoffmann is 15, but her character talks and behaves like she is 10. The character also appears extremely awkward, needing a babysitter and apparently doesn't have a single friend in this movie. She is clingy, spoiled and can't do anything without the input of others. Not even rescuing herself when lava is threatening to kill her. Nope, she stands there shouting for her father to run to the car, pick her up and he actually has to carry her all the way to a doctor because... well... would you expect her to be able to do it herself? Sure she had a small second degree burn on her thigh, but at the hospital, she walks perfectly fine and you even see her running less than an hour later.I also found the movie stupid as it claimed several hundreds had died in this incident, yet it seemed you had to be a complete and utter moron to be able to die at all. Were those people really more stupid than Kelly? The only logical death in the movie was the firefighter trapped in the firetruck and one of the few characters I actually felt sorry for.In conclusion, the movie is very stupid, but because it has a good pace and lots of things going at all times, there isn't a moment when you can take a nap since you'd miss out. It's too bad that all you get to see for more than half of the movie is stupidity.

Volcano (1997): Dir: Mick Jackson / Cast: Tommy Lee Jones, Anne Heche, Gaby Hoffmann, Don Cheadle, Keith David: Containing all of the suspense and excitement of a beer commercial, and about as much ambition as a bowel movement in the bathtub. It follows the formula closely with problem discovered by hero who goes unbelieved until disaster strikes etc, etc. Outcome is predictable and dumb as expected and directed with the same arrogance by Mick Jackson who also made The Bodyguard and L.A. Story. This would easily be the worst disaster film since Twister. Tommy Lee Jones and Anne Heche basically recite what every hero must go through when becoming involved in bid budget disaster crap. Heche in particularly has a lame scene where she runs about a crowded panic stricken street screaming someone's name, as if she actually believes that she will be heard. Gaby Hoffmann plays Jones's daughter who serves as little purpose as possible. Then there is Don Cheadle as that trouble maker with a last minute change of heart. David Keith also gives a wasted performance in a role that is about as broad as lava of the ass. There is also a total lack of plausibility such as making a horse shoe barricade that would hardly work since the lava can flow through the cracks. It is about as entertaining as plugging the toilet. That could be fun if the object used to plug it is this film. Score: 1 / 10