The Rock takes a page out of the Chuck Norris bible in his rendition of a special forces soldier returning to his home town. He quickly learns things in his hometown are not as he had left them and not for the better. Soon, things come to a head and he has to make a choice as to whether he is going to put up with it, or Walk Tall.As The Rock himself mentioned- the original Sheriff Buford was a white man in his 40's so remember this is an adaptation of a 1970's movie script that was originally "based" on a true story, so we are a pretty long ways out from accurately representing the original events- this is only representing the SPIRIT of the original true story.Fabulous fight scenes, a tense script and some funny moments all are reminiscent of the numerous Chuck Norris movies that portrayed a quiet guy that doesn't take any bull-crap from nobody man!While the script made perfect sense in an earlier time - the Viet Nam era, it doesn't quite fly 100% in this day and age. So suspend a little belief.You may findyourself scratching your head as to how that could happen in this day and age.. well.. it could back then - even though it didn't really haha. However, no mention is made of the actual time period they are trying to represent- yet they mention current items like home depot and cops TV show. The moonshine whiskey sheriff buford fought is updated in this script to be crystal meth/ice.The acting is surprisingly good for the Rock and he is looking manly in this movie instead of the sculpted eyebrow weirdo looks he has achieved in the past. Instead of looking like a dancer in a gay club like he did in Scorpion King, he looks the rough and tumble part for this role.His attachment to his family is acted in a clumsy and weak manner but that isn't really important to the script- even if he only sort of likes his family he would still protect them with his life so it still works for the momentum of the movie.Johnny Knoxville is mainly weak but has some great shining moments where they allow him to be Johnny Knoxville instead of the stupid 1-d concept of his character that seems to be forced on him through the other parts of the flick. At times he is reminiscent of Barney Fife to Rock's Andy. :-)If you want to READ about the real man that INSPIRED this really great story- http://www.sheriffbufordpusser.com/history1.htm (the welcome page has a picture of him)

The key note here is inspired by a true story. Not based. So who knows whats true and whats not. I doubt Meth was a big time operation in the early 70's or whenever this was based. But nevermind that, this was a fun movie. Yes it's rushed, yes it's 75 minutes long. Yes there is indeed 11 minutes worth of credits. O_OBut if you wanna see a good Dwayne Johnson movie, this is certainly better than the other movies he's done so far. The acting isn't too bad and good IL Johnny Knoxville continue's to have a lot of fun. He's growing on me. the sheriff's girlfriend seems to be a dead ringer (at least for the movie) to Britney Spears. Although just like Spears, her acting abilities are much in doubt. Dwayne's a good actor. Hey he's a wrestler, and he's had a lot of practice in that area. Wrestling is all about acting. ;)7/10Quality: 5/10 Entertainment: 10/10 Replayable: 10/10

The Rock is the next great action hero. He has all the requisites. He is handsome, an amazing athlete with an awesome physique, charismatic, intelligent, and funny. His star power carries Kevin Bray's "Walking Tall".The Rock is great in an entertaining movie. "Walking Tall" though great fun to watch, and capably produced and directed also punctuates that The Rock needs to work on more edgy and quality projects. He is definitely a movie star, who can become a solid actor. "Walking Tall" has to overcome a very convoluted writing credit. This is not a retelling of the Bufford Pussor story, although its original screen writer, Mort Bristein, is acknowledged. This "Walking Tall" by David Klass, Channing Gibson, David Levien, and Brian Koppelman tells the story of returning Special Forces war hero Chris Vaughn (The Rock), who comes home to a small town outside Seattle. The town mill has been closed down, and his old high school bud, Jay Hamilton (Neal McDonough), owns the new town casino and pretty much owns the local police too. Jay is not the man he remembered from his youth. Chris is forced to raise his hand reluctantly against Hamilton's men. They leave him for dead, and fortunately Chris survives. So Chris is out to right an injustice, and exact revenge with extreme prejudice. This "Walking Tall" resembles "First Blood" particularly in it's local and plot setting. Props to Director Kevin Bray for delivering on the story line as Chris exacts his revenge. Bray has a clean and lean style. The action sequences are crisp and dramatic. The Rock truly excels in the fight sequences. For one thing he is an big strong guy, and when he is laying "the smack down" on the villains it is believable and thoroughly enjoyable. The bad guys truly get what they deserve. The supporting cast is solid. Ashley Scott (almost unrecognizable from the short-lived "Birds of Prey") is good as the stripper with a big heart who is Chris's love interest. Johnny Knoxville (of "Jackass") is funny and charming as Chris's bud and deputy Ray. I completely enjoyed "Walking Tall". It is a brisk 75 minutes of cool action, and has the star power of The Rock. I look forward to seeing more movies starring The Rock.

*SPOILER ALERT* *SPOILER ALERT*If the Rock wants to be the next big action hero, he's going to have to learn to embrace the R rating. If any movie needed excessive violence to make up for its complete lack of plot, intelligence, etc., it was "Walking Tall". I am a big fan of the original Joe Don Baker movie and was interested in seeing the Rock take a big stick and bash a new generation of bad guy's heads open."Walking Tall" is a very efficient, no frills PG-13 action flick. The Rock comes back home only to find filth everywhere he looks. Seems the new casino in town is run by a bunch of lowlifes that need to get a big stick slammed upside their heads. The Rock is happy to oblige. Soon the bad guys and The Rock will do battle. You could write the rest of the movie yourself. Actually, don't bother. A movie this brain-dead just keeps lumbering along on its own.As a brainless action flick, "Walking Tall" was OK. Fair. I wanted to see the Rock bash people's heads in and "Walking Tall" delivered. I can't fault the movie for that. However, The Rock version has nothing on the mighty Joe Don Baker version. Baker's version was about being a man and Walking Tall. Joe Don needed to prove he could be a real man and clean up the town. The Rock's version is about bashing skulls. Period. Dot. The end. The Rock was already a man the second he walked into town. He had nothing to prove. He just wanted to attack somebody. There was no need to call this one "Walking Tall". They could have easily have called it "Rock Smash!".

The Rock is one of the greatest performer in and outside of the ring, but 'Walking Tall' isn't one of his best. Dwayne Johnson is missing the stuff that made him famous. His character of Chris Vaughn lacks his sense of humor, his charisma, and his ability to hook the audience's attention. Hooking the audience is the key and sadly this movie does not. The Rock's persona got cut back, as Chris felt more like a bland Boy Scout. Chris Vaughn is supposedly based on famous sheriff, Bufurd Pusser of the 1960's. This film ever cut the best parts of the original Walking Tall story by having the events place out in Washington, rather than the Deep South. Nothing against Washington, but the Deep South is where the real Buford Pusser's story begins. Pusser is known for his virtual one-man war on moon-shining, prostitution, gambling, and other vices on the Mississippi-Tennessee state-line. As sheriff, Pusser survived seven stabbings and eight shootings. At less, the 1973 version kept him in the same area and same name. That movie had Joe Don Baker as Buford Pusser, and it did kinda strays pretty far from the basic facts of the crusading sheriff's life. It's not a great film, but there is some entertainment value associated with it despite the endless amounts of boom mikes in some of its shots. The film made Pusser, a ex pro-wrestler who comes over to stop a casino and prostitution ring with a 2x4 Wooden Board, that was later use as a gimmick for another wrestler Hacksaw Jim Duggan. Walking Tall was rated R, having more violence than the 2004 version. For goodness sakes, Pusser almost got his jaw almost blown off, and his T-shirt so soaked with blood. The 2004 movie plays it safe with it being PG-13. Having it PG-13 somewhat hurts the film, due to the reasons that I can't find the villains to be much of a threat, the Rock can't be the bad-ass he is, and the movie felt like safe career move for Dwayne Johnson. Vaughn, the homespun do-gooder underdog type, will only further cement Dwayne likable movie persona. That's why it seem like Chris Vaughn is carrying a 2x4 of boredom while cleaning his town. After return home from service, U.S Army Special Forces Chris Vaughn looks for work at the mill to find it closed and a casino has taken it's place as the main source of income of the town. He soon find out that his old school mate Jay Hamilton (Neal McDonough) is the owner. Neal McDonough is just what you'd expect from a generic bad guy - he does a lot of sneering and nothing more. Not only does Jay own the place, but his ex-girlfriend Deni (Ashley Scott) works as a stripper there. Ashley Scott is just what you'd expect from a generic girlfriend - she has a nice body, an acceptable face, and almost no dialogue. After noticing the casino is fixed and selling drugs. He wrecked the place. So if you want to become Sheriff, go berserk and wreck a casino. Then become your own lawyer at your trial, and plead why you should be Sheriff to a town that hasn't saw you in years. Tell them that the casino is evil despite probably most of them income comes from working at the casino. Yes-surely that would trust you. Chris Vaughn runs for sheriff, wins somehow and fired all the polices due to original Sheriff abusing his power. Rock doesn't like that, so Rock abusing his power to fight against the casino. Meh. Chris call upon his friend Ray (Johnny Knoxville) to try to stop the casino's drug running. Clearly Johnny is just there to be a comedy relief and it's just awfully clear. He plays himself most of the time. Sorry, but I don't buy Chris Vaughn, a crusader against drugs hanging out with a foreign alcoholic man like Ray. Their goal to ruin the casino, and save the town by doing so. Wouldn't the town go under if the casino went away, and how on earth will they rebuild the mill with no money? Does he have a million dollars somewhat to start it back up? Face it, this movie is lackluster at best, and is lead by a man who is only famous for beating up other men in questionable context. The action fighting scene looks faker than the pro-wrestling, he came from. For somebody that came from the Special Forces, his character really doesn't know how to do hand to hand combat. Lot of dull moments full of combination of very loosely based fact and Hollywood revisionism. Walking Tall had the potential of being something very good, but end up playing it safe.

Dwayne Johnson does what he does best here, kicking butt and taking no nonsense from anybody (yeah, had to tone down the language here). You know exactly what you will get from a movie like this, and the movie, story and actors all deliver exactly as you would expect.That being said, then don't get me wrong. I am not saying that "Walking Tall" is a boring movie, far from it actually. It is an entertaining movie for what it is; a straight forward, generic and predictable action movie. And the emphasis is on action here, because there is a lot of it throughout the entire movie. You just simply lean back and unhook your mind and enjoy the ride.The story is about a former military guy named Chris (played by Dwayne Johnson) who returns to his hometown, only to find it very changed. The small town has fallen into a downward spiral fueled by drugs and gambling. Chris decides to take matters into his own hands and weed out the bad seeds."Walking Tall" actually does have some well-cast actors on the cast list, including Dwayne Johnson, Neal McDonough and Kevin Durand.If you enjoy a good action movie that is fast paced and can be watched even if severely hung over and just need something that your mind doesn't need to be present for, then "Walking Tall" is a good choice.

74 minutes was filled with action-packed, shoot them up scenes. The Rock is like a character out of a Sylvester Stallone film.The premise where a returning soldier goes home to find his town filled with corruption is a familiar theme. Getting involved when a family member is affected with a drug overdose is also trite.The film proceeds too rapidly on that memorable trial, and our hero becoming the town sheriff and immediately cleaning things up as they did in old Dodge City.The violence is expected as the new sheriff tries to set things straight.I liked the film, but there needed to be more character development.

Despite being a fan of Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson, I've only just got round to watching 2004's 'Walking Tall' - an (apparently!) 'true' story about a soldier returning to his home time to find that pretty much everything centres around a corrupt casino. Now, it's up to him to take it on and take it down.The film surprised me on a fair few levels, but most of those are based on how I now see Dwayne Johnson and the typical type of film he now stars in. Back in 2004 he wasn't quite the Box Office powerhouse he is today, therefore 'Walking Tall' was almost more 'low budget' than I ever imagined I'd see him in. Now, that's no bad thing. You don't need mega-budget and tonnes of computer-generated special effects to make a good film. You just need to tell a compelling story. And, to be fair, 'Walking Tall' was a simple and effective tale.First of all, it's pretty short - weighing in at well under the typical hour and a half. Therefore it does cram quite a lot of story into a short space of time. This means that it's never dull, but sometimes the plot does just seem to gloss over major plot points and jump from major factor to the next in - literally - a single scene. For example, a court case happens almost within days of the (alleged) 'criminal' act it resides over. Don't crimes usually take months (or even years?) to come to trial normally?However, that's just a minor gripe. I don't know much about the 'real' events it was based on, so I don't know how exact anything really plays out, but it is certainly an interesting piece as it begins to show Dwayne Johnson's natural charm and screen presence. He's not quite ready to take over the entire Box Office, but, if you look closely, you can see that it's going to happen pretty soon.Plus fair play to making a piece of wood feel like one of the cast! I'd like to see the plank of wood go on to bigger and better things - just like the man who wielded it!

What makes Walking Tall such a good movie, in my opinion, is that you really want The Rock to beat the bad guys. Obviously, in these type of movies the good guys always have to win, so it's really important that the director make sure the good guys come out looking much better than the bad guys so that when the good guys win, the audience is satisfied. This movie does that perfectly having The Rock have something extremely cowardly done to him near the beginning of the film. Johnny Knoxville adds a lot to this movie as well with some good humor. Overall it's just good entertainment the whole time.So check this out some time because it's a prime example of how a slightly more adult feel-good movie should be done.

First off, I'm a huge Arnie fan. I love the action flick and my hero of action is Arnie with Willis coming a close second. So when I heard that Welcome to the Jungle represented Arnie handing the mantle to some WWF wrestler I was extremely disappointed, how could anyone entertain me as Arnie had?Well I never did see Jungle, but I have just watched Walking Tall and met this Rock fella, and you know what? I'm impressed. If this is the guy to carry on what Arnie did, I'm with him all the way.Movie: In this movie Rock can act, and act well. He's big and really grabs a hold of the action hero role, but on top of that he's personable, engaging and very believable. He has a great screen presence, his lines aren't delivered flat, there's not any overacting and he's very real in the role.What's more surprising is that Johnny Knocksville isn't that bad either. I've heard many negative things about this guys acting, but in this movie he doesn't do too badly. Sure, he does look a little awkward in some scenes but overall he's very competent.Neal McDonough who I last saw in the TV show called Boomtown is, if it wasn't for Rocks surprising performance, the star of the film. Essentially playing his character from Boomtown but without any of the good characters aspects, he's mean and ruthless here, a part he plays superbly well.The story does have an older more western or fifties feel to it, and this stands it in good stead making it feel less like a modern action movie and more of a character based story. Something it carries off really well and helped by the large performances of the actors involved. It also does a good job of building tension and developing the story at a good pace.There's a good filming style in the movie, simple and realistic, helping the feel of the movie along leaps and bounds. That seems to come through on everything from the camera work to the dialogue and from the fight scenes to the sometimes excellent editing - most memorable as the Rock drives through town after his second Casino visit. The fight scenes benefit most from this style, giving a wide view of very realistic hand to hand fighting which often turns out to be quite brutal. The characters pick up anything to fight with and there's no stylish moves here. They are tough, vicious and the characters get seriously hurt.Picture: Widescreen 2.35:1 - Anamorphic In keeping with the realistic tone of the film the picture is filled with natural colours and lighting, nothing is over saturated and it's clear and sharp throughout.Audio: Dolby Digital 5.1, Dolby Digital 2.0 - The audio is good and particularly strong during some of the fight sequences. It also features a soundtrack which matches the setting and tone of the film well.Extras: Audio commentary from director Kevin Bray, director of photography Glen MacPherson and editor Robert Ivision, Audio commentary with star Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson, Alternative ending, Outtakes, 'Stunts' featurette introduced by The Rock, Photo gallery, Theatrical trailerThe deleted scenes and outtakes are interesting but not that entertaining or overly informative, apart from the Rock's accidental breast grab. The same applies to the alternative ending which is a little bit funny, but nothing revealing about the editing decisions.The audio commentaries are the strong part of this DVD offering, with one from the Director, Director of Photography and Editor, and the other from the man himself, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson. Although the filmmakers commentary is informative, the commentary from the Rock is as much of a surprise as the movie itself. It's both amusing and insightful for the movie making process as well as the person himself. Surprisingly humble, self depreciating and open, the commentary lets you get to know the Rock as well as a ton of facts about the movie and the actors. This guy can talk!Overall: I saw the first comment about this movie on IMDb and it slates it, calling it a mindless action movie. Quite frankly that's rubbish. This movie has a lot more to it that most action flicks and has a fair chunk of characterisation over them too. It's quite a morale tale, as well as one based on a true life story, and apparently it's quite true to the real story. However it does have its fair share of action, but something that stands out for the movie is the realism in which it is portrayed and shot. There are still some traditional action scenes, but for the most part it keeps it grounded and tells a good tale that does give you a warm feeling. Entertainment with a good message, I like it.Also, for your consideration, is the performance of the Rock. Not only does he prove himself to be a great action hero, but he also surprises you in his acting ability. I was wholly taken in by him and really latched onto his performance. Don't forget we also have the delights of McDonough as his adversary.It's well shot, well acted, and a good entertaining story with more meat than you would expect. Don't write this off as a simple action movie, look deeper, give it a chance, and check out the audio commentary by the Rock.

OK, in my opinion these kind of action movies should not be criticize with an artistic approach. So if we are agree that, sometimes we need to see these kind of heroic action movies, for entertainment and chill out, this movie hits the bulls eye..I got to admit that, The Rock just fits in the movie. He got everything and more to be a known, demanded actor (like Vin diesel) for these kind of movies. He is a real character actor, and so comfortable in front of the cameras. Actually too comfortable, he could have been a little more passionate. Johnny Knoxville's performance is great. I really enjoyed watching him.Movie and the story is powerful too. As you know, the story is coming from a local hero Sheriff Bufford Pussers real life, who fought and beat the organized crime in his county at late 1960s... Many people wrote that the movie is short. I think it is great that this movie was short, because otherwise it would be boring. 80 minutes is a nice time to see the action. Watch it, enjoy it, forget it.Performances: 8/10 Editing: 5/10 Direction: 7/10Allover: 6.5/10

The film focuses on Chris Vaughn (The Rock) a former US soldier who goes back to his home and finds the town is ruled by a corrupt ringleader (Neal McDonough) , owner of the town casino . Drug and crime run over the place and he along with a friend (Johnny Knoxville) decide to clean it, turning himself in County Sheriff . Meanwhile, he falls in love with a stripper . Stand up, fight back, walk tall ! . One man will stand up for what's right !.The film is a powerful story about one army man and his fight for what he believes in and he has to find justice outside of the law . Director Kevin Bray captures every bone-crunching hit , kick , punch , he wants to make sure that the action was raw , intense action sequences . Today's cinematic world of explosions , gunplay , people floating through the air and everything else you could imagine , however this film is a just straight-up , old-fashioned , old school , hard nose , blue-collar and great feeling of realism . Club-wielding sheriff with a four by four piece of ceder gives hits and punches. The admirable starring rendered by ¨the Rock¨ has a big stick and he's trying to knock somebody's jaw loose. Violents incidents have a different flavor and character to go on and do more to succeed at his goal . The first incident in casino has a train-wreck chaos and hell breaks loose in old-fashioned stomp . In the next incident when he returns for revenge , it's more stealthy kind of shooting style because it's a more stealthy incident , he's got a bit of a plan even though he's acting out of rage , he's using the techniques and skills that he learned in the military . The third is basically just make it as riveting and energetic as possible , just a real thing , director is bringing back the movies of old , of yesterday that really took intensely raw action and put it on screen . This is an ultraviolent crime film wowed the movie-going public.The flick was professionaly by Kevin Bray. This craftsman began his film career directing the classic urban action comedy, All About the Benjamins, as well as this 2004 remake of Walking Tall. He has also directed over one hundred music videos and commercials, ranging from Whitney Houston to the Beastie Boys. And directing episodes of notorious series , such as : Black-ish , Run , Snowfall , Future Men , The Americans , Shameless , The games , Succession ...The picture is dedicated to the memory of Tenesse folk hero sheriff Buford Passer , being based on real deeds . In fact , the movie is a remake of ¨Walking Tall¨1973 by Phil Karlson (with Joe Don Baker) and spawned numerous sequels directed by Earl Bellamy (with Bo Svenson) and TV series . This film is even more violent than original . Rating : 5.5/10. Average but entertaining.