The crew of "Wayne's World 2" had a nearly impossible task of following up the amazingly successful "Wayne's World". Needless to say, this does not compare to the original. However, this film is pretty good. Myers and Carvey are back with just as much wit and splendid timing as the original. This time they are opposed by the brilliance of Christopher Walken who, as usual, plays his part to a tee. The plot of setting up a festival does not have the power of that of the original and I was not crazy with the Jim Morrison character. The amount of cameos was a bit too extreme at time as what seemed like every other shot had some other famous person wanting to be part of the film. You would think that a film like this would not be as good hearted as it is, but it really is just a good film on so many levels. It's not a must see like it's predecessor, but I would still recommend it to anyone.

I'm probably in the minority here, but I liked WW2 more than WW (that would be "Wayne's World 2" not World War 2). I thought the jokes were better and Christopher Walken was a trillion times better than Rob Lowe as the antagonist.

This film essentially begins with both "Wayne Campbell" (Mike Myers) and his good buddy "Garth Algar" (Dana Carvey) having finally moved out of their parent's houses and living life to the fullest on their own. As it so happens, Wayne's girlfriend "Cassandra Wong" (Tia Carrere) is on the verge of stardom in the rock music industry and has attracted the attention of an unscrupulous record producer by the name of "Bobby Cahn" (Christopher Walken) who is trying his best to sabotage Wayne's relationship with her for his own personal gain. Meanwhile, Garth finds himself being seduced by a beautiful blonde named "Honey Horneé" (Kim Basinger) who also has her own secret agenda. And it's during this time that Wayne has a dream in which "Jim Morrison" (Michael A. Nickles) advises him that the way out of his current situation is to produce a rock concert there in Aurora, Illinois and invite the biggest bands at the time with the promise of success if he books them. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that, although it lacked the novelty of its predecessor, this sequel seemed to be a bit more polished. Likewise, although some of the gags were recycled the film itself turned out to be just as humorous as the original film. In any case, I enjoyed this film for the most part and have rated it accordingly. Slightly above average.

This movie isn't bad for a number 2, but it's not great either. Really 2 funny scenes. The fight between the dad and the bar shwing scene. Other than that it's a spoof movie. With tons of other movie stuff in it.

Wayne's World as a brief SNL skit was always quite hilarious, and the first movie was one of the better ones made from an SNL skit. However by the time this movie had made it to cable TV, the entire concept just seemed way over done. Having a profitable movie can cause these types of situations. Of course a sequel will be made, and then the goal is keeping the material fresh, and finding new things for your characters to do. Wayne's World 2 is really just a rehashing of the same ideas from the original mixed with numerous cameos, other movie references, and ideas that just don't always pay off with the laughter that Myers may have intended.The story picks up with Wayne and Garth still doing their public access TV show, just like in the original. Wayne is still jealous of his girlfriend Cassandra's career and male attention, just like in the original. In order to prove his own worth, Wayne decides to throw a huge outdoor music festival to apparently make things right with the world again. Things culminate with the appearance of Aerosmith making their second cameo of the movie. There are some truly funny moments that mostly involve Chris Farley as a roadie wanna be, and Garth trying to woo Kim Basinger. Christopher Walken's appearance is welcome of course as a romantic rival for Cassandra's affection. Also a funny cameo from James Hong as her father.Alas, the magic just isn't there this time, and it was certainly time for Mike Myers to move on from this character. Penelope Spheeris was not on board this time as she, like so many others, found Mike Myers impossible to work with. Now after the failure of The Love Guru, it is unclear if Myers has anything new left in him. If Wayne's World 2 comes on, you might want to keep hitting buttons on your remote control every few minutes to see if something better is out there. 5 of 10 stars.The Hound.

Continuing in the goofy tradition of Wayne's World our two favorite goofballs Mike Myers and Dana Carvey are back in Myers's garage doing their cable access
channel TV show. Tia Carrere whom he won in the first film is trying to get her
music career going and she's got a shark of a producer Christopher Walken looking to move in professionally and personally.Only in the movies would Tia Carrere pass up Christopher Walken in this film
and Rob Lowe in the firs Wayne's World for Mike Myers.Myers gets a vision from the late Jim Morrison who says it's their destiny to put
on a concert in Adlai Stevenson Park in their home town of Aurora, Illinois. So
these two just learn as they go the logistics of putting on a concert. They do
get Aerosmith to show up for their event.About 15 movies get spoofed in this film and one major film star gets to deliver some banal lines like it was from the Bard.Number 2 continues with the same goofy standard as the first Wayne's World.

The story for WW2 is perhaps better than the original, we have been introduced to the characters and now get to watch them do something.Its funny :)

Haven't watched either of these in quite a while, but saw this one streaming and thought I'd revisit it. It... Disappoints a little. It's not awful, but it feels like such a rehash of the original without the same originality or creativity. I still think it's a solid background movie, there's plenty here to glance over at and enjoy, but as a whole it's underwhelming. If you're looking for some classic comedy with Meyers and Carvey, check out the first one. If that's not possible for some reason, this is serviceable enough but it should never be the first choice.

In general, sequels tend not to be such a good idea. There are many examples where a sequel has been utter rubbish and it is rare that a sequel can match up to its original, even if it is a good film. However, every so often a sequel comes along that can match its counterpart and even have some better points. Wayne's World 2 is a prime example of this.Mike Myers and Dana Carvey are back as Wayne and Garth and this time the embark on a quest to stage a concert in Aurora after Wayne is visited in dream by an all time great of the music world. Another strong plot and some great new characters to go with the originals make this film very watchable and there are possible even more laugh out loud funny moments than before.A very good, funny film that does justice to the great original