I live with a Vietnam Vet who served in the late 1960s with 1st Cav. Medivac. During service he earned two Purple Hearts, the Distinguished Flying Cross, and the Air Medal. Since WE WERE SOLDIERS concerns the 1st Cav., Randy wanted to see it. I reluctantly agreed; I am not partial to war films and I dislike Mel Gibson, and Randy is very hard on Vietnam War films. He dismisses PLATOON as a Hollywood 8x10 glossy; says APOCALYPSE NOW is an interesting movie that captures the paranoia, but all the technical details are wrong; and describes DEER HUNTER as excellent in its depiction of the strangeness of coming home but so full of plot holes that he can hardly endure it. And about one and all he says: "It wasn't like that."He was silent through the film, and when we left the theatre I asked what he thought. He said, "They finally got it. That's what it was like. All the details are right. The actors were just like the men I knew. They looked like that and they talked like that. And the army wives too, they really were like that, at least every one I ever knew." The he was silent for a long time. At last he said, "You remember the scene where the guy tries to pick up a burn victim by the legs and all the skin slides off? Something like that happened to me once. It was at a helicopter crash. I went to pick him up and all the skin just slid right off. It looked just like that, too. I've never told any one about it." In most respects WE WERE SOLDIERS is a war movie plain and simple. There are several moments when the film relates the war to the politics and social movements that swirled about it, and the near destruction of the 1st. Cav.'s 7th Battalion at Ia Drang clearly arises from the top brass' foolish decision to send the 7th into an obvious ambush--but the film is not so much interested in what was going on at home or at the army's top as it is in what was actually occurring on the ground. And in this it is extremely meticulous, detailed, and often horrifically successful. Neither Randy nor I--nor any one in the theatre I could see--was bored by or dismissive of the film. It grabs you and it grabs you hard, and I can easily say that it is one of the finest war movies I have ever seen, far superior to the likes of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, which seems quite tame in comparison.Perhaps the single most impressive thing about the film is that it never casts its characters in a heroic light; they are simply soldiers who have been sent to do a job, and they do it knowing the risks, and they do it well in spite of the odds. Mel Gibson, although I generally despise him as both an actor and a human being, is very, very good as commanding officer Hal Moore, and he is equaled by Sam Elliot, Greg Kinnear, Chris Klein, and every other actor on the battlefield. The supporting female cast, seen early in the film and in shorter scenes showing the home front as the battle rages, is also particularly fine, with Julie Moore able to convey in glance what most actresses could not communicate in five pages of dialogue. The script, direction, cinematography, and special effects are sharp, fast, and possess a "you are there" quality that is very powerful.I myself had a criticism; there were points in the film when I found the use of a very modernistic, new-agey piece of music to be intrusive and out of place. And we both felt that a scene near the end of the movie, when a Vietnamese commander comments on the battle, to be improbable and faintly absurd. But these are nit-picky quibbles. WE WERE SOLDIERS is a damn fine movie. I'll give Randy, who served two tours of duty in Vietnam, the last word: "It may not be 'the' Vietnam movie. I don't think there could ever be 'the' Vietnam movie. But they pretty much get everything right. That's how it looked and sounded, and that's what I saw, and this is the best movie about Vietnam I've ever seen." Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer

I was privileged to see a preview of Mel Gibson's new film "We Were Soldiers" based upon the book written by his real life character, Lt. Col. Harold Moore, along with Joe Galloway. I attended a showing along with numerous other Viet Nam vets and it would seem that there were as many opinions about the movie as there were viewers.  Like the war itself, each person in attendance probably had some personal experiences that the movie brought back from that deep, and sometimes distant, place we have put them.The movie was almost overwhelmingly graphical, but afterwards I realized this was instrumental in the telling of the story.  For the movie is truly about the leadership that Col. Moore brought to his men of the 1st of the 7th, and his determination that they would not suffer the fate of the French in Viet Nam, nor his own unit's most infamous battle, that of Custer's Stand at Little Big Horn.It was his determination and commitment that his men be as highly trained, as strongly molded as a unit, and most importantly as well lead as possible that stands out. This determination is obviously rooted in his deeply abiding belief that military leaders shall never forget that when they lead men into war, many of those men will never come back alive, but that those who lead shall never abandon them, even in their shared darkest hours.And while the movie highly succeeds in conveying the horror and tragedy that war is....has been...and always shall be, it was more difficult for me to realize that our War Department and Army could have been so callous as to have delegated the responsibility of notifying next-of-kin of the death of their loved ones to the local Yellow Cab company. Then I realized that in late 1965 it was all so new and no one knew that this war was going to grow and consume so many young American lives over the next nine years.The two most significant scenes in the movie for me were firstly, the scene when the course of the battle teeters on the brink of either disaster or success and the most important communication that Col. Moore's superiors have to convey is that General Westmoreland would like for him to leave the battlefield and fly to Saigon so the general can have a briefing. This more than anything pointed out how tragically we were doomed to failure in Viet Nam due to the political will, not the military will, being in control. The second most significant scene was in the airport where one soldier is pushing his buddy through the concourse and the voice over says..."They did not fight for God.....country.....right. They fought for each other", a fact that every Viet Nam vet would attest to.This a movie worth seeing. It is another testament, with a worthy cinematographic effort, to the futility and absurdity of war, and how that among madness can be greatness. It is a movie that will unlikely leave the viewer devoid of emotion.  What those emotions may be are as likely to be as highly personal, as the strength of their feeling.

I found this movie to be very good.  I had refused to see it in the theater because I figured that it would just be another bad war movie.  I was wrong.  Mel Gibson delivers a powerful performance.  I especially enjoy how his frankness, and compassion feel believable for the character he protrays.Also this movie is different in how it depicts the enemy.  They aren't shown as overly inferior, or ruthless.  I don't like how many movies show the Vietnamese as a bunch of blood thirsty animals.  The enemies leader is shown as being high intelligent, and if anything overly confident.
Yes, this movie is bloody, but it is impossible to depict the harsh realities of war without violence.  I think that everything is shown in a manner that does not take honor away from the soldiers.

`Saving Private Ryan' redefined the war genre and opened the floodgates to a new generation of war movies.  It pushed the boundaries of acceptability by frankly showing war in all its grisly glory.  As such it gave us a better understanding of how terrible and frightening war is.  `Black Hawk Down' took the graphic violence to a new level, with an intensity that matched the beach landing of SPR, but of a duration that was almost unbearable.`We Were Soldiers' is the latest big budget war offering from Hollywood. In many ways, I consider this to be the most complete of the three. Writer/Director Randall Wallace (who wrote "Braveheart", "Pearl Harbor" and the screenplay for this film), takes the understanding of war to the next level, by offering more than one perspective to the events.  Of the three films, this film has the best workup, the best character development, and the most nuanced look at the battle.  He brings all the sustained intensity of BHD in the action sequences, but introduces the NVA perspective, the wives' perspective and a far more charismatic and heroic central figure in Lt. Col. Hal Moore.Based on real events, this film shows war as being horrendous and heartless to both sides.  It expands outside the combat zone to visit the ramifications on the families as well.  The scenes with the wives getting the telegrams are poignant reminders of how war reaches beyond the battlefield.  Wallace's treatment grabs us on an emotional level and shocks the senses.  Unlike BHD, which presented the characters in a very anonymous way, we come to know these characters and their families and identify with them.Of course, the film lacks the hard edge that would make it starkly believable.  It is after all a Hollywood production and not a documentary. However, Wallace pours enough realism into the depictions to assure that this doesn't turn into another sappy melodrama like `Pearl Harbor', which was really nothing more than a romance with a long battle scene in the middle.  Wallace finds the optimal balance between engaging storytelling and the brutality of combat.The acting is excellent.  Mel Gibson offers the right combination of hard nosed officer and father figure (both to his children and his men). Gibson is steadfast and courageous without being harsh.  His portrayal of Moore is so well played, so charismatic and heroic, that it is impossible to believe that such a person could actually exist.Sam Elliot follows an outstanding performance in `The Contender' with this gem as Sergeant Major Plumley, the tough as nails warhorse who serves as Moore's non commissioned adjutant.  Elliot plays the intransigent career soldier to the hilt, where nothing including life itself is more important than honor and discipline.  Barry Pepper also turns in a fine performance as Joe Galloway, the photo journalist who hops on a helicopter to take pictures in the center of the battle and finds himself with a rifle in his hands fighting for his life.This is among the best war films in recent memory and probably the best film on the Vietnam War film since `Full Metal Jacket'.  I rated it a 10/10. This film is not for everyone.  It contains graphic violence and disturbingly realistic battle scenes.  It is a gripping and distressing film that should be required viewing for statesmen and generals alike.

If LtCol Harold Moore did not actually exist, it would be necessary for Hollywood to invent him.  A tough-talking, straightforward leader of men, equal parts swagger and heart, he loves his troops like his own children, refuses to leave the combat zone while his boys are in the sharp end, and sheds tears for the fallen in between barking orders into a radio handset and shooting charging enemies through the head.  The crazy thing about Moore, and about "We Were Soldiers" in general, is not how much is Hollywood hokum, but how much seems to be but isn't.  Moore is a real person and he was by all accounts (including, but not limited to, his own) a tough soldier, a shrewd commander, and the kind of crazy SOB who would be the first to go in and the last to leave."We Were Soldiers" is the story of Moore and his 1st Battalion, 7th Cavalry (Custer's old unit) in the Ia Drang valley, the first major confrontation between American and Vietnamese troops.  This alternately brilliant and exasperating movie is based on a book by Moore and UPI reporter Joe Galloway, with the cumbersome but oddly poetic title "We Were Soldiers Once...and Young".  It begins with Moore's assignment to the Army's first dedicated air cavalry unit, which is among the first US combat troops sent to Vietnam.  What starts as a mission to destroy an enemy force that attacked an American base becomes a brutal siege as the Cav are surrounded and trapped, 395 men pitted against nearly two thousand of the enemy.Moore is played by Mel Gibson, who adeptly portrays both the paternal kindness of a decent man and the manic glint so common in good infantry officers.  Unfortunately, the movie focuses so much on him that it loses some of its big-picture scope.  After a while it begins to seem that Gibson is everywhere; no firefight can commence unless he fires the opening volley, no act of valor passes without a shot of Gibson's eyes welling up with pained pride at the sacrifice of his soldiers.  A little of this is good, too much of it is bad.  Moore probably was larger than life, but Gibson's Moore almost threatens to be larger than the movie.The supporting cast is led by Sam Elliott, whose Sergeant Major Plumley is destined to take his place among the greatest flinty NCO portrayals in film history.  Barry Pepper plays Galloway, and delivers the movie's intro and epilogue, though he doesn't appear until late in the movie.  The movie parallels the story of the battle with that of the officers' wives, led by Madeleine Stowe as Julie Moore.  The wives' story is given some short shrift (and some very clumsy scenes), though it is in parts so wrenching it is almost a relief to return to the war zone.One memorable passage in Moore's book likens the sound of a bullet hitting flesh to that of a canoe paddle slapping wet mud, an image that is at once comical and horrifying.  We have come to expect graphic carnage from our war movies these days.  However, instead of the rapid-fire speed-lapse photography seen in "Saving Private Ryan's" unforgettable Normandy sequence, writer/director Randall Wallace offers more straightforward depictions of the businesslike horrors of close combat: he doesn't use a lot of camera tricks to communicate the concept of chaotic violence, he just fills the screen with chaotic violence and lets us watch it in its unflinching fury. And call me an air-show junkie, but he has some beautiful sequences of Hueys diving over hilltops, flying in through smoke, etc.Most latter-day war movies give a nod to the enemy, making him human, not a faceless monster.  For all this movie's flag-waving sentimentality, it's actually better in this regard than most.  The Vietnamese are not fearless stoics; we see a young NVA infantryman panting and wide-eyed with fear as he charges the equally afraid Americans (something even anti-American screeds like "Platoon" never showed).  It's also instructive to watch Moore and his opposite number (Don Duong) moving among their troops doing similar things: offering encouragement, making stirring speeches, and plotting the demise of the other.This is a battle picture, a movie that exhaustively analyzes a single big-picture event in a war.  While movies of this type have been made for years, this is one of the very few to come out of Vietnam.  The pantheon of great (and not-so-great) Vietnam movies all have one thing in common: they portray specific events that did not, strictly speaking, actually take place.  Those movies are more about Vietnam as a general phenomenon than about anything that quantifiably happened there.  In this way, "We Were Soldiers" represents something quite daring: Wallace has made an early-40s WWII movie about the Vietnam War.And that's part of the problem: the movie has far too many places where it goes for overblown sentiment and emotional manipulation, often hokey to the point of embarrassment.  The fact that many of the cliches are true and many of the corny Hollywood moments are based in fact does not excuse slathering them in high melodrama.  This is doubly a shame because these scenes overshadow some stunning moments that work better for being small: none of the shots of Moore's eyes misting at the loss of his men can match the power of a scene that shows him standing by himself, his back to the camera as his shoulders shake with his unseen sobs.  This is a good movie, but it misses its chance to be a great movie because it doesn't trust us in the folding seats to adequately grasp the point.When "We Were Soldiers" goes wrong, it makes you want to roll your eyes. But when it gets it right, it cuts straight through to you with a sound like a canoe paddle slapping wet mud.

We, average movie lovers, are a little tired of Vietnam movies. Hollywood mass-produces them and indifferent films with different casts parade on the theaters.But the thing we are really tired of is Anti-Vietnam movies, with the message "We Shouldn't Be Here" written all over them. I don't argue that America should battle there, but the message has become boring after watching it over and over again. "Platoon" brings together everything I hate about Vietnam movies so it's the worst example for me, with "Born on the 4th of July" close behind it.But I know that Kubrick and De Palma used the same setting to produce masterpieces "Full Metal Jacket" and "Casualties of War"."We were soldiers" does not excel like the two I mentioned above, but is definitely a good movie despite those negative criticism it got from the critics. First of all it is an anti-war movie, not anti-Vietnam. It has a humanitarian attitude. "Thin Red Line" has the same attitude but so much that it was a distraction. Randall Wallace, gives a good mixture of combat and humanity.Mel Gibson is his usual self and does not disappoint. Gregg Kinnear delivers a decent performance as "Snake" and it was an interesting change to watch Sam Elliott without his legendary mustache.Violence and bloody scenes can disturb the ones with a weak stomach, but if you like a decent war movie, forget the critics and watch "We were Soldiers"

Behind even a forgotten war lies the memory of the fallen...This movie is definitely among the top 10 films ever made. It places the viewer right in the middle of the Vietnam War, grabs their emotions and sets them free. This movie commemorates the memories and makes heroes of each and every husband, brother, and son involved in a forgotten war- a war that was dismissed and frowned upon by the American nation as a whole. The film also takes the viewer into the home of the soldier. It invades the private life of the loved ones at home. We feel as though we are a part of the family in one scene, and the buddy of a fallen soldier in the next. A wife, child, friend of a soldier gone to war to fight for an ungrateful nation one minute, and the next the brave and loyal soldier. This moving and true story will take its viewer and bestow upon them a closer understanding, and a greater respect and gratefulness for our nation's true heroes.

"We Were Soldiers" is a nicely made movie but isn't exactly memorable, original or impressive enough to leave a lasting impression.There are several problems I had with this movie. Perhaps the biggest problem was that it wasn't easy to follow. It was hard to tell who was where at the moment fighting. Basically all we ever get to see are the Americans and the NVA shooting at each other through bushes and running towards each other. The movie lacks a sense of scale and because of that the movie also doesn't ever really become realistic. It's interesting that they also show the NVA side of the battle, something that's a very rare thing in a Vietnam-war movie but it's all done in a very shallow and formulaic way.Which brings me to another problem I had with this movie. It's all too formulaic and not original enough. The characters are build up in a sappy way and they lack substance and aren't likable or interesting enough. And having dying soldiers saying 'tell my wife I love her' has got to be one of the biggest movie clichés in movie history. There were really some scene's that made me cringe such as the scene in which a dying soldier says 'I'm glad I could die for my country'. I know it is wrong but I actually laughed and I mean really laughed during that scene. It was so embarrassing and totally unrealistic to look at. It took away all of the emotions and sense of desperateness and danger. It was a very over-dramatized and because of that also not a believable enough movie, to follow. They over-dramatized it even more to add the wives of the soldiers to the storyline. For me those sequences didn't worked and were only distracting and felt unnecessary.The movie is good looking and the battle sequences are nicely set up but it never becomes really tense or spectacular. Because of that "We Were Soldiers" is a good looking movie that is worth watching just maybe once but at the same time is also very forgettable movie that lacks real substance.The excellent musical score by Nick Glennie-Smith is wonderful though and is to be honest the only reason why I ever wanted to see this movie.There are better and more realistic Vietnam war movies to watch out there instead. Randall Wallace has created a sappy, over-the-top dramatic movie that doesn't make an awfully large impression.6/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/

A film about the Vietnam war, and more about the people who have fought there. A great script for the movie, ust a little dumb in some scenes, which can be stepped over, but, a good movie after all. I really enjoyed spending the 2 hours and a quarter in the theatre to see this great film. Mel Gibson really does his job very well, and I advise you to see the movie as soon as you can. It is probably the best war-movie I have seen.

I had very low expectations when I rented this movie and why shouldn't I? This is the same guy who directed Man in the Iron Mask (also wrote it as well) and gave us historical monstrosities like Pearl Harbor and Braveheart.We Were Soldiers is a sorry film filled to the brim with cliches and inept directing. None of the characters we feel empathy or pity for (thanks to some horrible dialogue and poor acting) and their utter reliance on the fact they are supposed to be based on real characters makes it look cheap. They could have done a lot better. One of the most annoying habits in the movie has to be Wallace's handling of "dramatic" scenes. Why for the love of Mike, he loves to extrude so much cheese from them is beyond me."Daddy, what's a war?"I mean, come on! Can they do better than this? Of course they can. If you want a good Vietnam war movie for the hard trials of American men in a battle, you go see Hamburger Hill. If you want a good Vietnam war movie for the tactics, you go see Siege of Firebase Gloria. If you want a good Vietnam war movie period, you go see Platoon. If you want a Vietnam war movie to roll your eyes from, see this.I highly do not recommend this.3/10