The opening sequence with Dwight Yokum and Rebecca De Mornay is one of the funniest in the film. The rest doesn't live quite up to it. The movie suffers from an improbability problem. I know from working weddings like some they went to, it's not easy to sneak into a wedding, especially high profile weddings with bouncers and giant men standing at the doors looking at your invite! Besides that, I will say I enjoyed the film. It's not as funny as say, 40 Year Old Virgin, but there's some good stuff in there. Keir O'Donnell has some of the funniest moments in the film as the goth/artist/gay son of Walken. These were some of the laugh out loud moments of the film.Owen Wilson is very likable in the film as the partier-coming-to-grips with his age and wanting more out of life. He more or less plays the straight man to Vince Vaughn's antics.Vaughn speaks in lightening fast dialogue most of the movie. Funny, and good, but at times I was left scratching my head. He's a strong actor and makes strong choices in this movie.The directing by Dobkin sometimes feels less than good. Desk scenes shot with 2 cameras make it look like the actors are improvising most of their lines and leaves these "buddies" looking a bit too disconnected.Bottom Line: If you enjoy comedies, especially of this genre, see it. It is very formulatic and if you're smart, you'll know how it ends about 30 minutes into this overly long comedy. (over 2 hours) PS: Will Ferrell turns in a very odd performance as Chazz Reinhold the ultimate wedding crasher. You might feel a little dirty after watching this near out of place character.

Saw a advance screening of this on Friday night. Hilarious doesn't do the film justice. You know how in most films you remember the funniest parts and bring them up as you leave the theater? This one, it's hard to remember the best parts because there's so many of them.Unlike his previous films, where Vince Vaughn is usually reduced to the role of 'scene stealer', here we get a full dose of Babaganush, and he's in his finest form since 'Swingers'. If you liked him in his Swingers/Made persona, you'll love him here. Some of the riffs that he has literally will have you holding your sides with laughter.Owen Wilson is Owen Wilson. You either like him or you don't. He's more of the straight man in this film, although he does have some pretty good lines too, and he has great chemistry with Vaughn, especially in the scenes where they're fighting. He's the ying to Vaughn's yang.The movie certainly 'earns' it's R rating. There's a healthy dose of nudity, sex related hijinks, and f-bombs. But it's not 'gross out' humor a la American Pie. It pushes boundaries, but not just in a 'shock value' way. It's genuinely funny.I saw the movie with a bunch of critics, who usually the jaded type, were laughing their asses of as well. Guys will love this movie and will be quoting it for the rest of the year. Girls will love it too though, and there is a romantic subplot (cheesy at times, but forgivable given how funny the movie is), with Rachael McAdams doing a great job as Owen Wilson's love interest. Isla Fischer plays the role of 'scene stealer' in this one, serving as Vince Vaughn's psycho love interest. And Chris Walken is Chris Walken.So overall..inappropriate, hilarious and glorious. Better than Oldschool. Way better than Anchorman. Best comedy of the year, maybe the last couple of years.

there is an easy rapport between Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn, and of course there's the wonderful Chris Walken and Rachael McAdams. and seeing Jane Seymour playing against type from her Dr Quinn, medicine virgin was a nice change. i wanted to like this film and watched it twice. i wonder if Vince put on extra weight for the role, the way Renee and Robert and George did.... i would venture to say that the beginning was less predictable than the end. and despite their pick-up modus operandi, the two characters were fairly likable characters. and i'm probably going to watch this again, except to see it win at the People's Choice awards...Vince and Owen's characters are such cads, but they are such likable ones, and they made me chuckle. That's more than enough.

This could have been a shocking buddy movie, but the writing, the comedic performances and the simple concept, make this my favourite comedy of the year.Divorce mediators John Beckwith (Owen Wilson) and Jeremy Grey (Vince Vaughn) are business partners and longtime friends who share a strange hobby, crashing weddings.With intricate planning of back stories, the pair crash Jewish, Itaian, Irish, Chinese, even Hindu weddings, always with an answer for that question of "And you are".?Wedding crashing has rules, handed down from one generation to the next :"Invites are for losers", "Make sure she's single", "Never use your real name", "Dance like you mean it", "Free drinks, why not?", "If you can't cry, fake it!" and the most important; "Never leave a fellow crasher behind"Though a kaleidescope of parties, we glimpse the whirlwind nature of wedding crashing. John and Jeremy aren't just out on the make, though the girls are their ultimate goal. They are sympathetic characters. Being the life of the party attracts the women, but these guys really do love the food, the bands, entertaining the kids and dressing up in their suits. Not only are they Wedding Crashers, they are Wedding experts.The ultimate crashing challenge comes when the daughter of the Treasury Secretary (Christopher Walken) and he wife (Jane Seymor) is getting married in what is sure to be the social event of the year.Of course, our friends find that this might just be a wedding too far, especially when they are invited to an extended weekend celebration at the Secretarys' home.The fun really begins and I shall stop telling you what is going on as the ins and outs of this film are delightful. Jane Seymor has a marvellous scene with Owen Wilson and there are many moments you want to berry your head in the shoulder of the person next to you to stop laughing too loudly.This is my favourite comedy of the year so far.

Wedding Crashers is a fun comedy that works simply because the filmmakers know what to do with what they've got. The great humor of Wedding Crashers is not found in the cleverness of its script or the creativity of its story, but rather in its lead actors. Had anyone but Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn been the leads, this movie would have tanked. They are both famous for that congenial charisma that so many people find humorous – the type that makes them come off as the fun buddies that we all wish we could call up on a Friday night. Director David Dobkin must know this, because he gives Wilson and Vaughn plenty of scenes to show off the qualities that have made them two of America's funniest and most likable stars. To fulfill the perfect cast, Rachel McAdams and Christopher Walken fill in the necessary roles. McAdams again reminds us why she has become so popular in the past year, glowing with her vibrant smile and charm that interact perfectly with every character on screen, especially Wilson's. Christopher Walken, among his many extraordinary traits, is famous for his dry, sarcastic sense of humor – revealed through his one of a kind voice. He gets a chance not only to earn some laughs in a way that only he can do, but also to play the role of the amiable father figure with the great advice. Make no mistake, though – underneath this film's main selling point of a couple of funny guys going around and crashing weddings to sleep with girls (an idea that is just about concluded within the first 15 minutes) – is a sappy, conventional chick flick. I use that term carefully though, because Wedding Crashers never actually falls victim to the typical stereotypes of your average chick flick. It avoids them because of its great cast and the chemistry they all share on screen – which can appeal to just about anyone who enjoys a good laugh. It conceals the fact that the script is probably one of the worst excuses for a comedy within the past year. What's great is that we never have to look that far – because the characters all seem to be enjoying themselves too much, and they make the film just as enjoyable to watch.

OK ,i did find the premise interesting , but come on, the acting is frequently over the top, the characters reactions extreme and unbelievable and so is the ease by which the central heroes "score" with women looking better than top models, as well as their total "immunity" to the occasionally "out of this world" beauty and heavenly figure of some of their "victims" until the "right" one comes along...Needless to say that despite it's somewhat original premise ,the film is ridden with clichés and of course a cheesy "happy" end...The movie tries hard to not be too sleazy, but sleazy enough for teenagers but the result is not so attractive... On the other hand, there are some clever lines and funny scenes and likable protagonists. Overall though unconvincing and unsatisfactory and therefore, overrated...

Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn make a good team as John and Jeremy, two serial womanizers who regularly crash weddings to pick up girls. This has been their tradition for a while, but things go awry when they crash the wedding of the eldest daughter of the Secretary of the Treasury (Christopher Walken). John finds himself falling hard for Claire, daughter # 2 (a radiant Rachel McAdams), and Jeremy gets targeted by Gloria, daughter # 3 (Isla Fisher), a "stage five clinger" who develops a serious infatuation with him.Overall, "Wedding Crashers" is a fun, if overlong, movie that delivers enough good laughs to keep it watchable. Some of the humour is of course pretty raunchy, and some of the dialogue rather colourful, but there are some amusing moments. Glorias' late-night bout of kinkiness is a good example.John and Jeremy are characters who might have run the risk of coming off as incredibly sleazy, but Wilson and Vaughn never overdo it, and their amiability does go a long way. But the real value of "Wedding Crashers" is that it offers good comic opportunities for many cast members. Walken is effective, sometimes edging into typical Walken-esque eccentricities, but also making sure to project some actual sense of authority and intimidation. The gorgeous McAdams is ideal, and it's not hard to see why the John character would be so taken with her. Fisher is hilarious as the seemingly unhinged, spoiled-rotten Gloria.Bradley Cooper, a few years before "The Hangover", portrays the arrogant rich jerk who's actually been dating Claire, and the fact that she clearly shouldn't be with him is obvious from the get-go. Jane Seymour is a hoot as Walkens' hot-to-trot wife. Ellen Albertini Dow is fun as his cranky, foul-mouthed mother. And Ron Canada, as the butler, gets to deliver some priceless lines. Dwight Yoakam and Rebecca DeMornay have cameo roles in the opening minutes; there's also a special (unbilled) guest star who pops up towards the end of the movie."Wedding Crashers" is ultimately plenty predictable, but getting to the end is still a reasonably good time, and there's enough emotional content to keep things on a fairly even keel.Seven out of 10.

Movie lives through Vaughn and Wilson. Both show an easy performance and want the audience to just simply have a good time.The Story is nothing spectacular. If you liked "Meet the Fockers", you're gonna like this one as well.Its the actors, who make the difference. Vaughn is hilarious and proofs, that he's much better in comedies than in "serious" movies. Wilson plays himself (as in every one of his movies) and scores a good 2nd place.Walken is just Walken and thats worth half the ticket. The girls are gorgeous. Especially Rachel McAdams knocked me out. Holy Cow! The Crashers are good fun. Not an new invention of the genre, but especially because of the actors, this movie rocks!

Wedding Crashers mayn't be a perfect film, but it is a very funny one. The editing could've been smoother and transitioned better into scenes, the film is a tad over-stretched in the final act and it could've been shorter. However, with its rude, raunchy yet very funny humour, the film is very funny helped by the witty script. The idea for the story is a good one, and works wonderfully in two-thirds of the movie, it is well filmed and directed and has a memorable soundtrack. The cast are great, Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn are great together and both give some of their best work of their careers. Rachel McAdams, Christopher Walken, Isla Fisher and Jane Seymour also impress. The characters are clichéd in a sense, but they are also examples of those that you learn to love the more you see the film. Overall, a lot of fun. 7/10 Bethany Cox

If you haven't watched this already what are you doing? Lmao it's hilarious and you need to check it out one of the best films froms the 2000s

Plumbing new depths in vulgarity and tastelessness, "Wedding Crashers" is a tiresome compilation of recent American guy-girl movie clichés. The acting is poor and the script worse, making the cinema seat harder as each long minute goes by. Of course the audience lapped it all up, guffawing at each sophomoric gag. How depressing to see that this awful movie is #1 at the box office. Good cinematography doesn't rescue it. We squirm seeing Christopher Walken and Jane Seymour repeatedly embarrassing themselves. We yawn at Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson lurching from unbelievable "I love ya Buddy" male bonding to predatory joint hunting of generic society chicks. Compared with the finer acting and script of now-running "Must Love Dogs", the winner of the toilet humor, bad language, degrade women and insult gays genre is undoubtedly "Wedding Crashers". Insatiable public appetite for this rubbish will ensure that we soon might see even worse movies, if that is possible.