The actress Heather Langencamp lives in Los Angeles with her husband Chase Porter (David Newsom), who is secretly working in a mechanical hand for the next movie of Freddy Kruger, and their son Dylan (Miko Hughes). During an earthquake, Heather has a dreadful nightmare where Chase's partners die; in the morning she is invited to be the guest of a talk show about the tenth anniversary of "A Nightmare on Elm Street" with the presence of Robert Englund. Later the executive of New Line Cinema Robert Shaye invites her to perform Nancy Thompson again in the latest project of Wes Craven based on his own nightmares, but she turns the invitation down. Heater is being disturbed by a man that calls her in the telephone and sends creepy letters to her. When Dylan has nightmares with a man with claw and tells that he is protected by his T-Rex toy showing symptoms of schizophrenia, and Chase dies in a car accident, Heather becomes paranoid with Freddy Krueger. The reactions of Robert Englund and Wes Craven indicate to her that something is going wrong. Further she discovers that Freddy is an entity that does exist and is an ancient demon trying to use her weakness as the gateway to the real world. Heater needs to face the evil Freddy Kruger to protect her beloved son."New Nightmare" is an original approach to bring Freddy Krueger back after his death in "Freddy's Dead: The Final Nightmare". The story blends reality with fiction and transforms Freddy Krueger in a millenary evil entity that tries to reach the real world through the actress Heather Langencamp, giving a survivorship to this character. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "A Hora do Pesadelo 7 – O Novo Pesadelo – O Retorno de Freddy Krueger" ("The Hour of the Nightmare 7 – The New Nightmare – The Return of Freddy Krueger")

It's hardly a perfect film for Wes Craven, but it's eerie and thought-provoking, something that been lacking in the previous movies that made Freddy Kruger into a goofy wise cracker and cheesy death scenes. It is also the last the last time that Freddy showed any real menace. Wes Craven made this to take back control of his creation and it works as a criticism of what the franchise became with Freddy as a comedian, not to mention a rebuff to the tired argument about violence in films always causing it in the real world. Freddy was far more straightforward with his kills and didn't manifest elaborate scenarios for each death. Pure intimidation. That's what Wes was trying to bring back. New Nightmare is almost in it's own league. New Nightmare had a great story and very original, creative ideas in it but it was still a bit confusing with the plot of the movie! It's the movie without a movie. He would work this angle again, in the 'Scream' series with the "Stab" movies in Scream are movies within a movie! It's work here, it doesn't work there. 'A Nightmare on Elm Street 7: The Ascension' is being film, and Heather Langenkamp playing herself, the actress that play the original heroic star of the original movie is being ask to reprise her role as Nancy Thompson. She notice that her husband Chase, and son Dylan is also being haunted by Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund) outside the filming, and confront the actor Robert Englund about it. She then go to Wes Craven himself, who reveals that Freddy is real, and only she can stop him. There is a interesting theory that comes to front with this. It's probably not Wes Craven's intent, but an audience's interpretation is authorial fallacy to see that there might have been a connection to this movie with that of the 3rd movie Dream Warriors. Heather's character Nancy Thompson's dies in the World of the first three films/four films. Her funeral/gravestone proves this (the gravestone was shown in A Nightmare on Elm Street 4: The Dream Master). The character Kristen from Dream Warrior, somehow, created a new world/new reality and placed Nancy's soul into this world in the end of the film like it stated. It's a dream world, yet Nancy's soul can live a full beautiful life in this beautiful dream world. Nancy's physically dead, yet not spiritually dead. I would think that once she ages and dies in this dream world then she would have truly died. Overall, Nancy has been placed in a matrix type reality so, to her, everyone in this reality is real/important to her. Freddy though, once all event's take place in the "real world" (the world of dream warriors), realizes that Nancy is in this dream world/alternate reality and therefore tries to kill Nancy since he wants to finish her off once and for all. It must take a lot for him to enter this dream world though since earthquakes are occurring constantly. Since Wes Craven wrote 1, 3, and this one... could it be Nancy living as Heather. It's a headache, but it's worth checking out or is the previous films fake and this movie real. Is Heather insane or is Freddy really coming out of the film to kill the actress that kill him in the movie? The movie goes with the realish look to it. Surprising the earthquake footage in the film is real. It was taken from the 1994 Northridge earthquake that happen during filming. The movie seem fresh, and the way in which Freddy talked, walked, and looked really brought a much needed shot of freshness to the character that had seriously been lacking. Freddy has a deeper voice. To correspond with this, the make-up and outfit of the character was different, with one of the most prominent differences being that he now wears a long, black trench coat. In addition, the signature glove was redesigned for a more organic look, with the fingers resembling bones and having muscle textures in between. It really adds to his darker vibe. The problem with the movie was that Freddy was way too soft. He looked better than ever and he was darker than ever, but all he did to the kid and his mom was chase them around, wrestle them, and scare them. Also Freddie's screen time is almost non existent, he rarely in the film, but when he is, he's scary! Heather Langenkamp takes most of the movie time, sadly not great in leading the film anywhere, as she unable to act her way through wet tissue. Even with fails, Wes Craven's New Nightmare was probably created solely for the purpose of Wes wanting to erase 2, 4, 5, and 6, and I believe even 3 because he said in the special documentary for the box set that he essentially believes that only the first film and A New Nightmare are cannon. Essentially Wes Craven threw a bratty fit over the fact there were so many sequels and wanted to basically bury the series with A New Nightmare. The meta-fictional methodology of 'New Nightmare' really gave a unique and terrifying storyline and, in my opinion, one of the best films of the franchise. So while the theory is still interesting and I can see how it would work, I think it takes away from how good 'New Nightmare' is. I'd rather watch this one than a complete hideous garbage 2010 one with Haley is, God I dislike that version.

My Reaction / Review: Nice to see Nancy again, I always liked her character. I really hope this is better than the previous movies. I think Nancy was some kind of psychologist (?) in a previous movie and here she is an actress called Heather? Interesting. Also Freddy is a movie star, lol? That plot is a bit insane. And Freddy killed her husband? That's brutal. But if Robert Englund is a movie star playing Freddy in the movies then who is Freddy? Is it him or someone else? Its a bit confusing. Ok time for my rating for the 1st half of the movie. The movie mostly focuses on Heather and her littler boy. The little boy's behavior is really weird and of course Heather is really worried because he keeps getting worse, to the point that doctors think that the boy suffers from schizophrenia.While all this is good, the first hour lacks any thrilling moments really, it feels a bit flat, also there is no ''slasher'' in it. My rating for the first half is 6.2/10. Lets see if it gets better or worse. Ok so Freddy is trapped in this NOES movies and now because its the end of this franchise he will escape and come to our world? Sounds like a silly concept really. Ok so it took them 1 hour and 8 minutes to show us Freddy! Better late than never I guess. Wait so only Heather was able to feel the earthquake? Was that a dream? A hallucination maybe? Im almost 100% sure Freddy can't cause earthquakes. The babysitter or whatever she is starts punching nurses in the face because they wanted for the boy to sleep, like wtf, who does that?Ok things got more chaotic and more disturbing with the doctor pretty much thinking that Heather is insane. While its fun to watch the rules are kind of blurry here. How is Freddy able to hurt the babysitter in REAL life when Dylan is the one dreaming? I get it that Freddy wants to escape the dream world and come to the real world, I just don't understand the process 100%, like what is the limit and set of rules. I really enjoy the fact that Freddy's target is the kid and we have Heather, the mother who is doing everything she can to protect him. My conclusion is that the 2nd half of the movie is better than the 1st but still nothing great. Ratings: 1st half of the movie 6.2/10 and 2nd half 6.8. My final rating is 6.4. While this movie was good, it was not great but its worth watching. Much better than the previous movies. 6.4/10.

Modern rendition about the myth Freddy dealing with young people discover they're having the same terrible nightmares . New version about Freddy Krueger killing people in macabre style and boasts some startling , gruesome special effects . A re-imagining of the classic Freddy Krueger, a serial-killer who wields a glove with four blades embedded in the fingers and murders people in their dreams , resulting in their real death in reality . Nowadays, it's nearing the 10th Anniversary of the picture 'A Nightmare on Elm Street' and one of the protagonists , (Heather Langenkamp) starts to be haunted in their nightmares by scar-faced and dream-hunting Freddy Krueger (Robert Englund now fits likes a glove) , a kind of spectre with awful burns , in stripy jumper and large knives. He enters their dreams at will and again kill them. Heather Langenkamp is being scared by a voice on a telephone , sounding very similar to the movie's nasty, Freddy Krueger . When Heather's husband (David Newsom) is killed in a car crash and is discovered with slash marks on him, Heather starts to wonder somethings . Heathe learns that Freddy has now entered the real world . The unsettling Heather plagued by astonishing dreams helps her son (Miko Hughes) to attempt to stop the nasty and demonic Freddy who kill people in macabre ways . Mother and son are having the same bad dream in which a malicious bogeyman is frightening them with knives attached to his fingers and the dream becomes reality . Heather sets out to discover the truth by attempting to draw the bogeyman out of the dream .This is a diverting reworking upon first film's plot by screenwriter Wes Craven based on his characters and dealing with the imaginative premise about a kind of ghost who can enter their dreams at will and intents on taking over both his body and mind . The twisted script dishes up the requisite helping of one-liners and throwaway black humor . This eerie film packs thrills , chills , creepy events and lots of blood and gore . It's a flimsily plotted but visually enjoyable addition to the Krueger endless saga . There are a few genuinely inspired events , notably Freddy's appearances and the extraordinary body-ripping spotlights in the Hospital room . Although it results to be a franchise that we now know was to follow , there are some originally frightening dream sequences. Special and extravagant visual effects are the climax of the movie and the startling make-up on Freddy face , but both of them don't save the story . Young casting and special appearance by John Saxon , the same Wes Craven and Robert Shaye , film's producer . Creepy and imaginatively made musical score fitting to terror movie by J. Peter Robinson . Colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Mark Irwin . The motion picture well produced by the great producer Robert Shaye from New Line Cinema and is professionally directed by Wes Craven , though with no originality and nothing new to show . Wes's sure grasp of the skewed logic of nightmares help to sustain the ambiguity between the dream and real world . Rating : 5,5 , passable sequel . It's all acceptable scary fun .The series initiates itself from original entry title ¨A Nightmare on Elm Elm Street¨ directed by Wes Craven with Heather Langenkamp , Johnny Depp , Amanda Wyss and John Saxon . The rest is a series of disjointed but however impressive special effects pieces . As it was followed by a handful of sequels in which horrifying special effects dominate this slasher saga , as ¨Freddy's revenge¨ 1985 by Jack Sholder with Kim Myers , Clu Gulager and Hope Lange ; ¨Dream warrior¨ 1987 by Chuck Russell with Patricia Arquette , Larry Fishburne and Craig Wasson , it's one of the best sequels from successful original film by Craven , as ¨Dream master¨ (1988) by Renny Harlin with Lisa Wilcox , Tuesday Knight and ¨The dream child¨ (1989) by Stephen Hopkins with Lisa Wilcox , Erika Anderson . Besides a Television series ¨The Freddy's nightmares¨ and this last one ¨ A nightmare on Elm Street¨(2010) with Jackie Haley that is a simple copy with little imagination , too many flaws and giving routine treatment .

You can definitely see how this film lead to Wes creating one of the best horror movies of all time, Scream. But this Nightmare on Elm street sequel could have been so much better if Freddy's mask didn't look like a cheap Halloween mask. If it was meant to look like that just to keep the meta about this film then it was a bad decision. It looks goofy as hell and takes you out of the movie. Regardless, it is better than 95% of the other Nightmare sequels so you'll just have to take what you get. The film is about the real life actress, and real life actors, producers and director of the Nightmare series, dealing with a Freddy Krueger who has crossed over into our world. The script is smart but the stupid Freddy mask, as well as a few other flaws makes this film an ugly duckling.

I love horror movies.  I love being scared and I love the fact that a movie (something make believe that I, as an intelligent person,knows is just images projected from a screen ) can manipulate my emotions and make me nervous.  This is one of those movies.  And in the 90's, there have only been two movies that have actually made me nervous in some scenes.  And those two movies are by Craven himself---Scream and this one.When this film first came out, it was ten years and six films after the original.  I have seen all the Freddy movies more out of morbid curiosity than out of interest.  And maybe a part of me was hoping to catch a glimpse of what made the first so damn scary.  And time and time again I was disappointed.  But when I read in Fangoria magazine that this new one was going to be directed by Craven, I got very excited.  Could it possibly be that this film would go back to it's roots?Yes, it did.There is no two ways about it, Craven cares about Freddy.  He cares about how he was supposed to be, not what he has turned into in the last decade. Freddy was not even remotely funny in the first one.  He was a brutal, maniacal, sadistic, bent on revenge murderer.  He wanted to slice Nancy in two and he did that to Tina ( actually sliceher into many pieces ).  But in the mindless sequels to come, he became Eddie Murphy.  And there was nothing frightening about the sequels.  They made money but they weren't true horror films.  But this one, well this one goes back to it's roots and is almost as scary as the first one.This story is about the film character of Freddy becoming real somehow. He has been a part of Lagenkamp, Saxon, Craven and Englund's life for so long that he has somehow become real.  And now what was once a simple film character actually haunts the cast of the original.  We even get to see Rod ( Tina's boyfriend from the original ) at one of the funerals.  And what makes the story scary is that now Freddy has decided to come after Heather's kid.This film goes back to all the techniques that made the first a classic. There is excellent direction to make us fear what is under the bed.  The lighting is classic horror film lighting and the music is perfect.  There is however one complaint that I have and that is when Freddy is chasing the kid across the road.  He has become larger than life.  He is like the Stay Puft marshmallow man from Ghostbusters.  And that it seems is much more like the other Nightmares, not Craven's version.  And that takes away the delight in watching what was otherwise a perfect horror film.I said in one of my reviews of a horror film that there are no films in the 90's that are truly scary.  However this one is as close to an 80's horror flick as you will get now a days.  It is very frightening and it is almost a prequel to Scream.  This is one film that should not be missed.  It is a tribute to what scary films are supposed to be.  If I want to laugh I'll see Chris Rock, but if I want to be scared, Craven is the man!

By the mid-1990s, the horror segment of the film industry had run bone dry, thanks in no small part to crappy sequels. What makes this ironic is that New Nightmare is the seventh installment in the Nightmare On Elm Street franchise, and in spite of being far more creative than the five sequels preceding it, the market just hadn't recovered enough for it. Not that this is totally to blame for its relatively weak performance at the box office. In spite of being written and directed by the creator of the original, New Nightmare brings very little that could be considered new to the table. In fact, one could say that Wes Craven has been out of ideas since about 1990 or thereabouts.The conceit of New Nightmare is based in part on the manner in which Wes Craven gets ideas. The original Nightmare On Elm Street was based upon reports he'd read about Asian migrants dying in their sleep after complaining about nightmares that followed specific patterns. The idea in this sequel being that the idea is for real, and the source for that idea is interfering in the real world. It is, on the surface, a ludicrous idea, and it is a real credit to the cast that they can play it with such a straight face. Robert Englund in particular has a trying task in this film. Not only does he have to play a character that has been turned into a joke by three of the five preceding sequels, he has to portray himself taking that character seriously. It is a supreme irony that he is remembered for this role rather than the one he had in V.To its credit, New Nightmare assembles a lot of the cast and crew from the original in order to bolster this conceit. Even John Saxon, whose career had thoroughly tanked by this point, makes an appearance. Sadly, Johnny Depp, the most successful alumni from the original, is nowhere to be seen. Granted, he had a cameo in Freddy's Dead, but given how pitiful that film was, it would have been nice to see Depp playing himself in this one. Jsu Garcia and Amanda Wyss are also nowhere to be seen, although I suppose it is good that they did not try to stick every actor from the original into this new one. After all, you have to allow the story to flow a bit. But that is where the biggest of New Nightmare's problems come from. Much of the 112 minutes that New Nightmare runs for feels redundant, and entire sequences go by with nothing seeming to happen. It is not a measured pace, but rather a pace that leaves the viewer waiting for something to happen.Another problem, and this is one faced by all of the Nightmare On Elm Street sequels, is that the dialogue is incredibly stilted. Even Wes himself speaks in a fashion that I cannot really imagine him using elsewhere. I guess part of the problem lies in the unreal subject matter. No matter how hard one tries, one cannot really explain the mechanics of a demonic presence borne of one's imagination and keep a completely straight face. One cannot help but wonder at times if we could have been shown, rather than told, some of the mechanics of the story. A lot of films in this genre spend too much time explaining why we're meant to be scared, or how a particular antagonist works, paying no attention to the economy of time. Still, it is better than most of the previous Nightmare sequels, in which the writers relied upon the knowledge the viewer might have had about the previous stories.In all, I gave New Nightmare a 5 out of ten. It is worth spending a couple of hours watching while doing other things, such as writing this dreadful review, but as a form of entertainment, it is pretty ordinary.