Recap: Both Joy and Jack has seen better days. Joy just got dumped by her fiancée, in front of all their friends, and Jack just got fired, by his father. They both go to Vegas to forget their miseries and after a drunken night out end up married, by mistake. But a 3 million dollar lottery prize complicates matter. But instead of giving them an annulment the judge orders them to stay married for six months, in order to get a part of the money. Now a bitter feud start where they try to sabotage for each other in order to get all the money for themselves.Comments: A Hollywood blockbuster that actually works pretty well. It is funny, quirky and even if the main concept are unoriginal it has its own little fresh twists and turns. It got some really good jokes, and manages to hold a high level throughout the entire movie. It isn't just some small and few jokes that are funny, it is actually constantly funny. The best part however, is actually just after the story really ended, when they show what really happened in Vegas. Stay put and don't miss it, it got some good scenes after the credits too.Ashton Kutcher and Cameron Diaz might seem like an odd match, but they work really well together. They really work as a pair, but don't forget that they both are solid comedians, veterans in these types of movies. And they certainly don't disappoint. But the supporting cast should get their credit too. The movies wouldn't be the same, not nearly as good without their partners in crime, played by Lake Bell and Rob Corddry.I guess that this is something that almost everyone can enjoy, a perfect movie when there are different tastes. I suspect that most people out there will find this funny, because it is very well made, even though it is not an epic classic.7/10

WHAT HAPPENS IN VEGASI watched the movie first in the cinema when it first came out.The movie is about a man and a woman who meet in Vegas and get very drunk and get married. But just as they agreed that the wedding should be annulled, he wins a lot of money. She then decides that as they are married she is entitled to half... but a judge disagrees and makes them live as husband and wife to earn the cash.It is a cheesy comedy that has some good moments and some bad moments.The story is quite good, but this is a romantic comedy so just like all romcoms, the first 2 thirds of the movie is very good, but the final part is just mushy dribble.The movie stars Ashton Kutcher and Cameron Diaz. They are both completely over the top in this movie. I am not overly impressed with either of them as actors. I think Cameron can be funny, but generally just annoying. Ashton is not very funny, but can be entertaining at times. He was quite funny in this though.There were a lot of predictable moments in this film. There wasn't anything really original in there. I did like the way they fought each other throughout... I think that is was made this film as entertaining as it was.There are a lot of romantic comedies out there and sometimes I wish there would be some more original stories, but it seems that if you are making a film like this, there is a typical formula that you have to stick to.This film is good, it is funny, it is entertaining, but it is not the best. There are a lot more comedies out there that are a lot better.I will give this film 6 out of 10."I just wanna junk-punch him in his man business."For more reviews, please like my Facebook page:https://www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl

When I first saw the trailer to What Happens in Vegas..., I thought it did look so predictable, but it had some really funny moments in the trailer, so I still wanted to see it. The only sad part, we have Cameron Diaz(who looks like a really good looking aging woman) and Ashton Kutcher(who still looks and acts like he's 12 years old), so we have two obnoxious actors that could have made a very disastrous film. But I saw What Happens in Vegas... yesterday and even though it was very predictable and stupid, it still had some very funny moments. I mean, Cameron and Ashton play two of the most unlikeable characters in movie history, who just bicker back and forth. The characters who win you over in the film are Rob Corddry and Lake Bell, who's fighting is actually very funny. But Aston and Cameron had some really good moments too.Joy just got dumped by her boyfriend in front of her friends, Jack just got fired by his own father, so what's next for them? VEGAS! They happen to meet when their rooms get mixed up and end up drinking together, having a ball in Vegas, and end up accidentally marrying each other. When they come too, they realize it was a mistake, but start bickering, Joy leaves a quarter at her slot machine and Jack puts it in and wins 3 million dollars! But when it comes to the annulment, for some strange and unbelievable reason, the judge sentences them to 6 months hard marriage and freezes the money. So these two who have nothing in common battle it out, until of course they fall for each other.What Happens in Vegas... is silly and predictable, but I do think the rating her on IMDb is a little harsh. I completely side with people who hate Cameron and Ashton, but their battle scenes together are pretty funny. Just I've seen so many worse films, this was just a fun romantic comedy to lighten the spirit of Iron Man and Speed Racer, not to mention the more action packed movies for the summer. So I'd say it's worth the look, but more of a rental vs. a high priced ticket, but just have fun, I think you'll get more than a few laughs.5/10

This film is just your typical Rom Com. An easy watch with a couple of punchlines to get you laughing. There's no effort to this film but one to chuck on when you don't feel like putting much thought into a film.I also noticed that on second watch the film had a really good soundtrack. The storyline is obvious with two people getting married on a drunken night in Vegas and then regretting it. And there's obviously a Vegas win with money involved. Will the couple make it through the courts forcing them to live together? Well I think that answer is an obvious one, but with a fun journey on the way.If you get a chance, watch it, but don't go out of your way.

"What happens in Vegas" is about 2 people unexpectedly meeting up in Las Vegas, and after getting drunk, getting married. The next day, none of them can remember the night. Joy McNally (Cameron Diaz) and Jack Fuller (Ashton Kutcher) - the now pronounced married couple - turn up in court after Jack wins the jackpot $3,000,000. They are sentenced to 6 months hard marriage, and must attend regular counselling sessions. If they manage to live together for the whole time, the money is split. But if one of them asks to get out of the marriage, then the money is rewarded to the other person. So they each make the other persons life hell to force them out of the marriage.The film is a perfect mix of romance and humour. The film is pretty predictable to the viewer, but that doesn't make it bad. It's not a typical Hollywood flick. It may be basic with storyline and humour, but somehow it still appeals to many people.Cameron Diaz and Ashton Kutcher both play fantastic roles as always. In the film, they both act about 10 years old, playing jokes on each other, and just having a good time. They play there characters incredibly well. In my opinion, Kutcher has played his most energized performance to date."What happens in Vegas" is an exceedingly bright comedy, and Diaz and Kutcher seem to work well together and have fun playing their roles with each other. The start of the film is basically like many other film set in Sin City, but it eventually settles into a rhythm.Tom Vaughan - the director - structures this film in a way that makes it enjoyable compared to some other similar RomCom's. I recommend watching if you have liked previous RomCom's. Something about this particular film makes is stand out from other classic movie's.

"What Happens in Vegas" reminds me of that great "Seinfeld" episode; the one where Jerry and George create a sitcom pilot about a traffic accident that results in the guy without insurance being the butler of the other man. It's the idiot plot, a concept that "Vegas" indulges in like a free buffet dinner. The movie proves that what happens in Vegas should sometimes just stay on the cutting room floor. The movie stars Cameron Diaz and Ashton Kutcher as Joy and Jack. Joy got dumped by her boyfriend while Jack just got fired from his job. Both needing a pick-me-up, they are convinced by their friends (Rob Corddry, Lake Bell) to take a trip to Vegas, and after one wild and drunken night, the two wake up in the morning to find each other lying in holy matrimony. Not only that, but while trying to end the marriage, Jack wins a huge jackpot after playing Joy's quarter, throwing a wrench into the divorce proceedings. Whoever gets the other to divorce them first is entitled to the money, and so the "happy" couple move in with one another and hatch escalating schemes in order get the other to bail out of the marriage first. Only if you've seen this kind of thing before, what do you think happens when they come back from Vegas? It's a contrived sitcom from the start. Even before I went in I knew what I was getting myself into. Still, if the movie was funny it would more than make up for the complete lack of anything new. I was surprised with the kinetic and wild energy that director Tom Vaughan brings to the opening Vegas scenes, as it almost made me think that this movie may actually be likable. But then these two idiots wake up married and the movie slows to a halt. They each find one witless and unfunny way after another to get on the other's nerves. Joy hogs the bathroom, Jack pees in the sink, Jack rubs his balls then handles food, Joy throws food at him. At one point Jack gives himself a black eye to show that Joy is abusive. The movie wouldn't dare do it the other way around because, of course, spousal abuse on a wife isn't nearly as hilarious. I don't know what's more insulting, that the movie finds this crap funny or that in the last half it expects us to buy this phony romance based on life lessons and profound understanding. And then you have Kutcher and Diaz, two likable actors forced to play with bottom of the barrel material. Kutcher seems to know the material is terrible and tries to be comedic in his own way but the effort turns out to be more obnoxious and over-wrought instead. And Diaz is just shrill and unpleasant. We don't buy it when these two turn from being incredibly mean and nasty to one another to actually understanding the other and so the romance just flounders. On the upside, Rob Corddry is in the movie and he is fastly becoming comedy's best supporting player. "What Happens in Vegas" is just dumb. I expected nothing less, was hoping to be surprised with more, but am completely un-surprised by what I got. Sometimes you just have to roll the dice and see what happens though. Snake eyes!