I saw the movie with my mid-teen sister who's exactly the target audience of this film. Now there are many films that are not for everybody, they do not excel in acting, directing, screenplay or effects to be called a 'good movie'. They are meant for certain part of the audience who, if it sticks to the specific formula, just love them. Now I wasn't meant to love "What a girl wants", but I guess, thinking from my point of view, it's a good diversion from me.The script is above the level I was expecting and young Amanda Bynes acted quite well. Colin Firth seemed a little wooden. There are bits of little innocent humors in places that makes it a relief to watch. The shooting locations and the sets are fine. The soundtrack too is catchy. So even the storyline is very very shallow, one should not complain or analyze too much about such films.

This was a cute, clean movie that you can sit down and watch with your kids. Daphne has never met her father, so she takes off for England to find him. She discovers he is in the middle of an election for some public office. Daphne has to choose between becoming what he wants her to be and staying true to herself.  And dad has to make a choice about what is really important.In response to the reviewer who slammed the movie as being anti British, and saying it was trying to say the American way is better, that is utter nonesense.  This was not a typical British family--they were royalty and associated with people like them.  Do you suppose the real Queen would find someone like Daphne amusing? Daphne's boyfriend was a decent young man who was also a bit off the wall and his own person--but he was an ordinary English kid, not a member of any royal family.  There are circles here in America where Daphne's free spirit attitude would be frowned upon, too. Every country has "classes" that are snobbish and uptight and every country has "Daphnes"--good kids who just want to be themselves.

I went into the theater today expecting a good movie. I was wrong. Why was I wrong? Because this was a GREAT movie!!!The trailers made this film look INSANELY cheesy.  Since I know from experience that trailers are highly inaccurate, I was expecting a PARTIALLY cheesy flick. But what I saw had almost no cheese to it at all. What A Girl Wants, despite its unfortunate title, is what a LOT of people want, combining drama, comedy, romance, and self-discovery in an hour and 45 minutes of enjoyment.I didn't say insight, mind you, I said self-discovery. This is purely a narrative, not a deep thought movie, and it wouldn't have worked any other way. Kudos to Dennie Gordon for not trying to accent a theme that we're already familiar with, rather, she just throws it into the story, almost casually, so that we see the message of individuality but aren't repulsed by an overly blatant moral.Many of this film's detractors say that it's a rip of The Princess Diaries. Not true. Yes, it's an adaptation, but it's based on "The Reluctant Debutante", which was around for DECADES before Diaries was even conceived. Besides, while it is a little formulaic, there are a few twists.
Many say it portrays inaccurate American/British stereotypes. Not true. Daphne and her mother are CLEARLY presented to be NOTHING like the average American, and Lord Dashwood only behaves so properly because of his political position.Amanda Bynes as Daphne Reynolds finally gets a chance to show of her incredible dramatic skills. (Moody's Point had too much of a satirical tone to properly show this.) Bynes has her glory moments of comedy alongside her touching moments as the girl who wants to understand who she is.Colin Firth as Henry Dashwood. Come on, who didn't already know Firth kicks butt? He is the center of every scene Bynes isn't in, and he carries that weight well.Eileen Atkins as Lady Dashwood does a tremendous job with her supporting role, who is far more crucial to the plot than anyone expected.Oliver James handles his theatrical debut well, showing much more emotion than the previews indicated. Libby Reynolds isn't a fully round character, but that's the script's fault, not Kelly Preston's. Both are capable singers, and considering that Bynes's one major performance flaw is lack of musical ability, I'm glad these two sang instead of her.
In fact, basically the entire cast here was superb.See it, you'll be glad you did. Fine entertainment for almost everybody.

Like, WHOW, this film sucked!! Can Amanda Bynes be more annoying...erm NO! I don't think so. Don't know how many "woww" "ahh" and "woohoo" sounds she made, but her shrieking frickin' annoyed me.The story was tame, and so done before, and done better I might add! Girl grows up without her father, wants to see her father, but of course he's some snobbish aristocrat moving in circles she doesn't belong in. Drama, drama, drama! Naturally, as always, things turn out alright. Colin Firth instills some awe, but then: he always does.To be fair, haven't seen Miss Bynes in any other films so don't know if she always sucks this bad, but based on this one: go find another profession!Overall, *YAY* Colin Firth; *AHHH* (horrified scream) for the rest of the film.

This review written in late 2013 at a time when Ms. Bynes career seems to have derailed and we wish her the best. In her career to date, the two most accomplished works she has left for us are this film, WHAT A GIRL WANTS, and the work she did a few years later, SHES THE MAN. Will deal with the latter first. SHES THE MAN is one of a small sub-sub-sub class of Hollywood products that attempts to build a movie around the notion of a woman disguised as man. There are at least a dozen of these floating around the IMDb. The writing in SHES THE MAN is way above average, and the supporting cast is perfect. But it is Bynes who steals the show there, possibly doing the most impressive male-female switch in film history. And speaking of stealing the show, that is exactly what she does in WHAT A GIRL WANTS. (The title never seemed a good match to the actual film, which builds slowly and successfully to a satisfying conclusion). Playing opposite a stellar cast (Colin Firth? Wow!) Bynes provided the perfect mix of energy, youth and charm to move this movie into a class of its own. She "owns" the role and once you have seen the film, it is hard to imagine anyone else doing it.

Put an attractive, young tv-star in an airplane to Europe and you got your movie-hit. Where Hillary Duff went to Italy and became a singer, Amanda Bynes tries out England to meet her father, some big hot-shot up and coming politician. And those are just two movies from last year. The complete list of comparable stories is endless...We've all seen it before. Nice mom, cute girl, mean stepsister, father is about to mary to wrong woman... or maybe he doesn't? It's as cliched as it gets, but 'What a girl wants' wasn't as bad as many of those movies, nor as irritating as the 'going to Europe' 'Lizzie McGuire' movie.The big plus for the movie are it's main characters. Amanda Bynes is perfect in her role as young American girl discovering London, and Colin Firth is always a pleasure to watch (even though he played in the dreadful 'Bridget Jones' movie).A couple of things bugged me though. First off, those Englishmen have a serious security breach, with Bynes breaking in the house of a Lord and later breaking in at a fashion show with Prince Charles attending. Somehow I guess not...Biggest problem though was the 'Ian' person. We all think Bynes is gonna fall for him but she doesn't phone him, and later on she goes back to America without even saying goodbye... such an odd thing to do for a girl in love.The story isn't mindboggling whatso-ever, but I'm sure it's 'what the girls want' who like the Bynes show in the USA. Way better than the Duff movie, that's for sure. 5/10.

The stereotypical plot, the stereotypical script, the stereotypical teenage chick flick. Well, it is, except for two elements. The first, Colin Firth is on a rampage as the new quintessential British aristocratic leading man and he nails this one yet again. Second, Amanda Bynes' character is written up with a surprisingly down to earth, non-self centric and in fact cheerfully bright and enthusiastically altruistic disposition, that is neither air-headed ditsy, not standard issue bitchy, self obsessed and vanity driven nor even an overtly docile, shy and demure type. This refreshing characterization is far more realistic than stereotypical characterization, which sort of streamlines teenage girls into only one or the other, which in reality, like all other people, they too have a bevy of emotions, intellectual needs and altruistic abilities. That's why this movie still can climb and triumph over lots more of its contemporaries.

This movie wants to be better, but it's just not.  It holds no surprises at all - everything that happens is broadcast.  I wanted to like it, but I just didn't.  I did enjoy seeing Colin Furth dancing in front of the mirror - that was the best part of the movie.

The folks banging this movie have to get real.  It's about an average girl (Bynes) who gets to meet her dad, who's in the process of running for major political office in England.  It's not about Yankee superiority over the Brits (sheesh!), it's a simple fantasy about the effect a teenage girl has on her once-stuffy dad in stuffy society.  If you're politically offended by this movie, imagine Amanda as a carefree Portugese girl visiting her long-lost dad, a member of U.S. Congress from Massachusetts, and chill out. That being said, Amanda Bynes is a cool and attractive leading lady/girl and plays very well with the other characters in this film.  It's all been done millions of times before, and it's not Oscar material, but it was a pleasant diversion for me.

Daphne(Amanda Bynes) has always dreamt about meeting her father and when she finally turns seventeen, she goes to london to search for him. Her father Henry(Colin Firth) is a wealthy british politician and Daphne's free-spirited and outgoing personality might not be the best thing for him. Daphne is not well liked by Henry's new wife and snobby stepsister and now Daphne must not only get to know her father but also her own true self-identity. I thought this movie was like a modern teenage cinderella  story added with a little bit of humor. It's a entertaining little movie, but not everybody will enjoy it, it's aimed more into the teenage audience. I think Amanda Bynes did a great job, she is a very good actress for her age and she is also very cute. Anyways, back to the movie, I would give What a Girl Wants 6.5/10