"What Women Want" has a unusual plot which also makes us (men) think: what do women really want? The final conclusion is that they want happiness, just like men.Despite being a predictable movie and nothing extraordinary, at least it teaches to us (men) some valuable lessons about women. It's a good way to understand and know them better.The first hour of this movie is great fun, very entertaining and pure comedy. During the first hour we have some moments to give us good laughs. Mel Gibson has never been this funny before. He plays a hilarious character: Nick Marshall, a typical "macho men" or a "men's man". The kind of man that other men admire and want to be like him. The kind of man who doesn't understand a thing about women (although seen as a "God's gift" to women). Nick is proud, rich, chauvinistic, single and loves to hear Frank Sinatra.After an accident with the hairdryer, he suddenly has the power of hearing what women think and what they think of him isn't what he expected. He sees this as a curse, but after being convinced by a psychologist that he could take advantage of this gift, he uses it to manipulate Darcy McGuire.However, in the second half, the movie fails, becoming predictable and somehow lame, losing all its comical side. Some ridiculous and silly things happen in the second half. Also, I rather the "old" Nick than the "good" Nick, because the "old" Nick was much funnier. He becomes the "good guy" in the second half, losing his sense of humor.This movie has some nice songs, such as "I Won't Dance" (performed by Frank Sinatra), "I've Got You Under My Skin" (performed by Frank Sinatra in a duet with Bono) and "Bitch" (performed by Meredith Brooks).Mel Gibson is great and charming as Nick Marshall, while Helen Hunt is okay and pretty in the role of Darcy McGuire.

You know, I've watched this movie probably 5-6 times. As a kid.
I didn't get the the whole idea. I knew this simple fact, but I loved it.
Now, many years later I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. Man, it's been a long time since I have felt like this, while watching a film.
So, let me say what I have to say.
The storyline is something old, but expressed in a new way. There is romance, but a mature, not a cheesy one. The main idea (that there is no need for men to read our minds, but to listen what we say, like in 80%, not in 3%) is smoothly expressed throughout the movie.
My favourite thing was that, at one point, the main character started helping (you guessed right - women). And that's what makes this film up-lifting.

Well, to like this film, you've really got to like the lovely Mel. And while he's had his moments in the past, he is just starting to get .... on.... my....nerves. OK, the character is _meant_ to be obnoxious, in order to give the film its comedic spin, but boy does Mel smarm and squirm his way through the role. As most other comments have said, the women characters, particularly Tomei, are woefully underdeveloped and underused, leaving the film to stand and fall on Gibson's performance.The plot lurches along too: Tomei is written out with an unbelievable plot device, the 'daughter' sub plot is predictable and the ending just doesn't convince.As said, you like Mel, you get Mel. But if you're looking for sensible plot and believable characters, try elsewhere. It's almost as if the great Mel decided there just wasn't enough room in the film for anything else.

Mel Gibson (Braveheart) stars as Nick Marshall, a flirtatious big headed popular sales assistant in this likable romantic comedy about a guy who can read women's thoughts.Through his confident image, Marshall is presented as a stereotyped womaniser in this 2000 hit rom-com and through his character audiences are able to hear what women 'really' think. It's a laugh I suppose that women are stereotyped and are presented through the media as thinking such thoughts in their head such as how they hate guys who constantly ask them out, detest their bosses, think the way they think. By stereotyping these thoughts audiences can accept the roles of the characters and have a laugh about what women really do want.Its one of those films which is easy to watch and have a good laugh with as Gibson tries to cope with the 'calamity' of a situation he is in and Helen Hunt (As Good as it gets) also acts acceptably in her role as the new advertising division leader. The two perform well together although personally the ending was a huge disappointment for me, too clichéd and a tad disjointed, making the rest of the movie appear less acceptable to accept.One scene involving Gibson is fantastic where he is alone in his apartment and dancing with the hat to the music which is great enjoyment and allows audiences to relax when watching him turn on the charm. That scene too dragged for a bit after a while.There are many scenes which are very easy to laugh to and enjoy. Like all other romantic comedies there is a seriousness towards the central plot and also many side stories, one involving Gibson's relationship with his daughter which is portrayed as sweet and heart tearing but personally I wasn't too convinced.The plot moves at a steady pace to begin with but once Gibson has his 'power' and uses it to his advantage does the plot start to push itself and become more interesting. Apart from the ending and a few unrealistic scenes the film is enjoyable and perfect to watch with partner or on a date to laugh at what women and men want from relationships and society.watch it if...you like to laugh at relationship issues and gentle romantic portrayals of men and women

Mel Gibson goes pure romantic lead for the first time and turns in one of his most charming performances in WHAT WOMEN WANT, a cute comedy-fantasy about a womanizing advertising executive who gets quasi-electrocuted one night and upon awakening, discovers he has the ability to hear what all women are thinking, an ability he initially rebuffs, then abuses, and then runs from with all his might. Gibson is charming and sexy in this film...his dance in the apartment with the fedora to the Frank Sinatra record is a delight and he is well matched by Helen Hunt as his new boss. There are other amusing supporting turns by Alan Alda, Marisa Tomei, Valerie Perrine, Delta Burke, Loretta Devine, and Ashley Johnon as Mel's daughter. If you think Mel Gibson is the sexiest man alive, WHAT WOMEN WANT is the film for you.

It starts quite acceptable but when it gets to the point when Marisa Tomei is begging him to tell her that he is not gay, it's all downhill... Just plain sexist and women laugh about this crap. That's just so sad.

Here is a movie that, to be sure, is part fantasy, part wacky comedy; but to call `What Women Want,' directed by Nancy Meyers, `just' a comedy would be not only inaccurate, but would be doing an injustice to the film as well. Because-- while there are plenty of laughs to be had (especially early on)-- in the end, there is a lot more bite and substance to it than first meets the eye.  Enough to definitely raise it far above the `fluff' piece many will perceive it to be, if only due to some shallow reviews and the theatrical trailer currently being shown, which gives only the vaguest notion of what this movie is really all about.  In fact, once most of the `cute' stuff is out of the way (about a third of the way through), the film really starts to get good,with a message about decency that is worthwhile, if only it can penetrate the formidable barrier of the viewer with an attention span barely able to accommodate an episode of `Friends.'  Beyond the humor, there is a story here about a man named Nick Marshall (Mel Gibson) who literally receives the shock of his life, and afterwards must deal with who he is by coming to terms with his past, realizing the truth about himself in the present, and understanding what his future will be if he does not change his ways .  It's something of a contemporary take on `A Christmas Carol,' with Nick an egotistical, self-centered, witty (In his own eyes) Scrooge; a veritable legend in his own mind, which is not-- as he comes to find out-- necessarily the way he is perceived by many of those around him, especially the women in his professional life. 	The screenplay, written by Cathy Yuspa and Josh Goldsmith, is extremely insightful and brought to the screen with equal acuity by director Meyers, who goes to great lengths at the beginning of the film to explain Nick's exaggerated chauvinism, what made him the `Man's man' he has become.  And while it is clever and effective, closer scrutiny in the editing room may have benefited the overall film, as his character is somewhat `overly' established.  But just about at the point when you're saying to yourself, `All right I get it!' Meyers grabs the helm with both hands and suddenly the ship is at full mast and on course, where she keeps it for the rest of the journey.  The turning point comes after Nick's visit to a marriage counselor (a terrific cameo by Bette Midler) with whom he had had business some years before.  It's as if not only Nick, but Meyers as well, had heeded Bette's advice. 	Mel Gibson does a good job of getting into Nick Marshall's skin, and he's to be commended for going out on a limb and taking on a character that may not be immediately embraced by even die-hard Gibson fans.  It's a testimony to his ability as an actor, though, because he does make Nick the epitome of chauvinism, and except for the few throw-back Neanderthals (women as well as men) still in existence who subscribe to the `Man's man' theory of de-evolution, Nick will effect the same response from the audience that he does in the minds of many of the women who surround him in the movie.  It's only when you've had a chance to consider Gibson's performance at arm's length that you will realize how good he is in this film.  On the other hand, the real saving grace of this movie is immediately discernible, and that is the performance of the wonderful Helen Hunt.  As Darcy McGuire, the professional hired to lead the ad agency for whom Nick works into the Twenty-first Century, Hunt is nothing less than sensational.  One of the most gifted, expressive actors in the business, she raises the level of the drama (not to mention the comedy) by succinctly conveying the strength-- and at the same time the vulnerability-- of Darcy, while exhibiting a depth of emotion that adds so much to the impact (and the success) of the film. And, in a notable supporting role, Judy Greer is memorable as Erin, a lonely young woman who works at the ad agency.  It's the `Tiny Tim' role of the film, and though a small part, it figures prominently in revealing Nick's inner-most feelings at a pivotal moment of the film. 	Rounding out the supporting cast are Alan Alda (Dan), Marisa Tomei (Lola), Ashley Johnson (Alexandra), Mark Feuerstein (Morgan), Lauren Holly (Gigi), Delta Burke (Eve), Valerie Perrine (Margo) and Sarah Paulson (Annie).  What Meyers has created here is a mixed-bag, sleight-of-hand bit of entertainment that is so much more than what it seems to be on the surface that it is bound to evoke an equally mixed-bag of reactions (positive and negative) from the audience.  It's amusing-- downright funny at times-- but also exasperating.  To receive the full rewards offered by `What Women Want,' you're going to have to give it something as well.  If you do, you'll be pleasantly surprised by what you get in return.  And that, my friends, is the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 8/10.

I have heard people saying this movie was boring and not very funny so when i sat down to see it, i didn't have high expectations. I do like Mel Gibson as an actor and i thought he was very funny as the advertisement agent who has trouble relating to women to other things and sex objects. My favorite part of the movie is when he is trying out the ladies products and hop around a little trying to get into the pantyhose. Although this is a by the book type of film. Something happens to a guy, he gets a new ability and finally learns something from the experience and thus becomes a better man. All in all this is a funny and sweet movie. So bring a date, get the popcorn and have a great time. I rate this movie 7

Yeah, right - we (men) are pigs and our minds are empty, while women think about everything and men should try very hard to understand them...