What a shame it is when a potentially captivating and refreshingly low-key story manages to latch onto your interest at the start and then gradually lets you down further and further until you're left scratching your mystified head by the time it reaches its overdone conclusion. Unfortunately, this is what happened to me by the end of WHITE NOISE.It wasn't Michael Keaton's fault; it was a pleasure to see him return as the star of a brand new movie once again, looking a bit wrinkled perhaps, but still managing to give a strong and sincere performance. As a man whose wife has recently died, he becomes obsessed with her wandering spirit in the afterlife (not a new idea), apparently getting contacted by her through that funky electrical fuzz business you see on your television screen when there's nothing being broadcast.The idea of spirits communicating via the airwaves is called EVP (Electronic Voice Phenomena) and there are a lot of people who actually believe in it for real, so I'm not going to make any comments about what I think of that, or them. Let me just say that I'm all for suspension of disbelief when it comes to buying into fantastic films like this, but what I can't tolerate is not understanding what the hell was supposed to be taking place, which is about where I was left stranded when the credits finally began to roll. Much static indeed.There are occasionally movies like this that have me completely baffled, but if a film fails to make itself clear for me, I tend to consider that to be the fault of the filmmaker, not my own (unless I watched it while I was too tired to focus or something). Well, for WHITE NOISE I was wide awake, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed -- so guess who's to blame?

I loved the first 3/4 of this movie for its emotional depth as well as creepiness, which showed it had the potential be another "The Sixth Sense" in terms of a film that could both scary and moving. However as happens with so many horror/suspense films, especially those involving supernatural elements, the scriptwriter and/or director eventually abandoned the rules by which they were playing in favor of a conventional "anything goes" Hollywood ending, thereby robbing the film of its credibility and emotional depth.(SPOILER ALERT -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER) In the part of the movie that works, the concept is established that people who have died can communicate with the living through electronic means, ranging from simple things and ambiguous such as turning electronic devices on or off to actual aural messages and visuals. The film nicely develops Jonathan (Michael Keaton's) passage from disbeliever to someone who has had his grief assuaged by learning his loved one still exists, then takes the further turn to show how someone could become obsessed with these communications, even to the point of ignoring the emotional needs of his child. It also raises the concept that the person receiving the messages may be so eager to hear them that they do not recognize the possibility the messages are being manipulated by someone with less benign intentions. (SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER) Eventually the movie veers away from the central concept (dead people communicating with loved ones) to include live people near death sending help messages about real-time occurrences, then further to include messages about future occurrences, which may or may not be avoidable. While some of this was definitely chilling, the film lost me when it broke the central rule (dead people can only communicate through electronic means) to allow the forces of evil to take on corporal forms.(SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER -- SPOILER - SPOILER) What is particularly irksome is that the film could have stayed within its rules and still put its main characters in physical jeopardy. For example, instead of having Sarah threatened by a dark form somehow sneaking into her bedroom and either psychically or actually physically causing her jump from the window, why couldn't she have been threatened by electronic means (i.e. having the electrical system in her cut off while driving on the freeway.) Or causing an accident by spooking her. In the form of the very much alive workman who was abducting the women, they had a way to explain all the non-electrical damage that occurred (such as the vandalism of Jonathan's equipment) including a reasonable motive (the villain had allowed his obsession with the subject matter to carry him over into evil) without resorting to supernatural creatures. As it was, I didn't find the ending one bit believable, and when a movie fails to make me feel as though a threat could be real, it also ceases to be frightening.

White Noise comes across as a horror movie that tries to do something original before they are forced into doing a remake of an Asian film. It will still draw comparison with Hideo Nakata's Ring trilogy because of the static TV's but that is unfair due to the subject. The subject being Electronic Voice Phenomenon (EVP), which is a paranormal occurrence where the dead contact the living through static, recorded on the TV or a sound recording device. Original enough to make a movie about plus scary things jumping out of a static TV is relevant to the subject. Yay Hollywood. The apparent decent plot and the not-too-shabby cast headed by Michael Keaton actually had me very eager to see this, such a shame then that the movie actually doesn't do what it says on the tin.The first half of the movie is a decent drama about the loss of a mans wife and his obsession with contacting her from beyond the grave whilst his work and the relationship with his son suffers. The second half however seems to just draw from the basic scary movie template and disappointingly swerves away from the dead contacting the living and into Keaton running around like a psychic detective in a race against time trying to save people from dark forces.The movie opens in generic perfect home situation. Keaton plays Jonathan Rivers the successful architect who is married to his wife Anna the successful author, even his sons mother (the divorcée) has a good relationship with Mr. & Mrs. Rivers. Apart from the radio skipping to static a few times (an unused plot device?) things seem pretty rosy. Until "I love you" gets mouthed from the wife leaving the driveway taking the kid to school. Automatic dead meat. When will they learn? The police assume she slipped from the motorway, bashed her head on a rock then got taken away by the tide but Jonathan doesn't accept her death and doesn't give up hope. However, on his first day back from work since his wife went missing he is followed by a stranger whom he confronts. The stranger turns out to be some sort of expert in a phenomenon known as EVP and he says not only is Anna dead but she has been contacting him from the other side. Jonathan dismisses it until she leaves a message on his answering machine. Yeah, it is that simple. Cue Jonathan getting obsessed about finding out what her message is, mishaps happening and Jonathan getting even more obsessed over something completely different. Drawing in another believer in EVP they investigate into messages the recording equipment seems to be getting from the future.The ending leaves the movie ridden with plot holes, which has frankly become expected of movies like this from the past few years. It could have been so much more. Perhaps the director was wary of making this film 'The Sixth Sense from the other point of view' but then again the CGI scary ghosts wouldn't work in a more subtle setting like that. The plot turns into some non-sensical slush whilst the score let's the film down. The acting wasn't the strongest either but if you want to be scared every 20 minutes by the volume being cheaply cranked up and CGI ghouls flying out of static then go spend your hard earned cash on this.6/10 Robb Idle

I don't think I've ever been so bowled over by the sheer absurdity of a movie in my entire life as i was when i walked out of this piece of crap. NOTHING in it makes any sense. none of it is clever or well thought out. out of lack of truly suspenseful moments they repeatedly use that total cop-out trick where you build up the music before the character does something like open a door or push aside a curtain and then nothing's there. thats OK to do once, maybe, but i counted three times. there are things thrown in for no apparent reason, characters, half-formed story lines.... the characters weren't well developed at ALL. the ending was.. bad. bad, bad, bad, everything, every component, of this film is terrible. and I'm just here to warn you all of that.

This movie was very entertaining, but it is the kind of movie you would never care to see again. Very good thriller though and I would suggest renting it. It is not a scare-you-to-death horror movie. But it is very interesting. There is some extremely tense parts and some very "shock you out of your socks" parts. Over-all it was a good movie.The story line is very decent, but lacks the simplicity that horror-movies need.I would classify it as a thriller/suspense not horror. It is VERY complex and,I would have to admit, I was even a little confused. I think it wise to watch it in quite. Because it is sometimes hard to catch some parts of it.

The idea was awesome, the actors were incredible, the story could of been very scary, but the writing was poor and there was no depth. I couldn't really get into this movie. I couldn't feel for the characters, there were a lot of cliffhangers, and the movie just ends very weirdly. Was it a happy ending? I don't know. Was it a sad ending? Again, I don't know. You leave the theater feeling unsatisfied. The movie had so much to give, but couldn't. Just because you can edit, doesn't mean you should, right? I wouldn't really recommend this movie because you just can't say that you left the movie feeling like it was completed. You'll just be confused. Trust me, you will probably thank me if you don't watch this movie.3/10

I don't know why it has just 5.5/10 points.... I saw the movie on vacations, a dark night, I began to hear noises everywhere, my god, what a moment. For me the movie paid what it promises: it promises fear, so you get fear. Perhaps the context has much to do, I don't know. The characters are believable, and I found it very well conceived

As much as the beginning of the film had promise - happily married couple are destroyed by the wife dying in an apparently tragic accident - the fact that the grieving husband was receiving messages from his dead wife through white noise (reminiscent of Steven Spielberg's Poltergeist) seemed like a suspenseful plot until we understand it is to help other people who are about to die.I wanted his wife's communications to be about the exact nature of her own demise and that it had been far more sinister than it first appeared - which it was - but not in the way we want it to be. The fact that she was newly pregnant played out to virtually no significance. Unfortunately, there are too many unanswered questions and loose ends that leave the viewer with an overwhelming sense of frustration.I marked it down for being somewhat unsatisfied by it, while marking it up more for creating genuine fear and suspense.

I was psyched at first when I heard this movie was coming out. Well what a disappointment it turned out to be. I am an EVP\ITC specialist and paranormal phenomenon investigator. First off they blurred the lines of definitions between EVP and ITC. EVP or electronic voice phenomena is the capturing of entities or ghosts if you will on voice recorder or digital computer programs such as EVPMaker or Audition 1.5. It has nothing to do (not directly) with ITC or instrumental trans communication which is the process of taking a video camera hooking it up to a television output and input as you would if you wanted to playback what you recorded, then recording what the camera sees on the television. Theory is that the feedback loop frequency is the same one ghosts are geared to. These two topics of EVP and ITC are closely related but not the same thing. I was immensely disappointed (why should I have expected Hollywood to research fully a topic that they put to movie genre) with this movie and how it portrayed my field of work. It wasn't even really a good horror movie either. I really wish Hollywood would research it's ideas first before blurring the lines to make a buck, then leaving researchers like myself holding the ball trying to undo the misconceptions they have made.