This is a cult classic; the critics hated it when it came out but it has a lot of staying power as a social critique and one that makes fun of everybody. It's got a few obnoxious moments and a lot of low-brow toilet humor but I really enjoyed it. The Wayans brothers are hilarious, and I think the terrible makeup that's makes them obviously very unnatural looking adds to the comedy. A lot of funny scenes, like the dinner date with Terry Crews and the girls all singing along to rap music in the car.A good comedy movie that I think is very funny and will get plenty of laughs from viewers.

Without doubt the worst film I have ever had the misfortune to watch. The plot (if you can call it that) is totally lacking in originality, the acting is totally lacking in credibility, the comedy is absolutely awful. This film is not racist, it is not clever enough to be so. Even racists who are disgusting are not as stupid as this film. I'm not sure what the Wayans have done in the past but surely they have no future. Part, but not all of the problem is that the Wayans have to big an involvement in the film. It may have been improved if it had been directed by A N Other, but understandably nobody else would have put their reputation on the line for this rubbish. Having read other peoples reviews I understand that I am in the minority (at least in this forum), but I am entitled to my opinion. If you are in any doubt about my judgement, watch it and make your own mind up, but don't say I didn't warn you.

The trailers that came out for the movie were OK and funny at the time (mind you I was 13, 14 when I saw them). But now looking back it was not all the funny or great. Some scenes were just downright annoying. To this day my favorite scene is Terry Crews dancing.Considering the time, this movie was it was okay. Good luck trying to make this movie in 2021, it will never become greenlit, it would be a lawsuit waiting for everyone involved.

This movie never fails to make me laugh, it's the perfect parody humor. The acting is good from most of the cast and though the storyline is basic, it holds up. There are so many iconic moments, Terry Crews singing A thousand miles, the fitting room scene, and the epic dance off. One of my favs for a go to laugh.

I saw this at the drive in, it was a double feature with Spiderman 2, which was excellent. I debated wether to stay for it or not and decided to check it out.I had extremely low expectations for this movie and was surprised, it was allot better than I thought it would be.   Occasionally I like to take in a dumb movie, but there is funny dumb and there is lame dumb, I'm happy to report that this was funny dumb. Not as funny dumb as say Dumb and Dumber or Stuck on You, but still not as insulting as I thought it'd be.There were a few jokes where you groaned, but in the most part this was an enjoyable movie.Scott

Basically, it's another comedy with a far fetched plot, but is still entertaining. It's about two screw-up FBI agents who dress up as two white socialites for a weekend because the real girls get a scratch on their face (due to another screw-up) and don't want to be seen in public. So many of the jokes are fish-out-of water type. From pop music to skin tight pants. And there is this NBA player who continually hits on one of them. Those scenes were pretty funny, especially when he finds out she's a guy. All he can say is "you aren't white." Then they have a dance off between rival socialites that was funny.FINAL VERDICT: Not to bad. At least it had some funny parts.

This is the single worst movie I have ever seen I can only thank god that I didn't waste my own money watching this crap. Omit about 35 seconds of funny moments and you have the most inane, assine, boring, stupid movie ever. This movie makes not another teen movie look Oscar worthy it was that bad. I don't know what else to say but this is crap. If you wanna know more about the plot etc. read other posts because I'm not going to waste my time covering it. If you actually enjoyed this movie I implore you to stand up and justify yourself. And people giving this a 10 come on. I'm shocked its not on the hundred worst of all time list yet. 1 out 10 If you must watch this I suggest you borrow from some poor sucker who actually paid to rent or even worse bought it because I wouldn't waste my money on it.

This movie is simply funny, it aims to make you laugh and no more. Anyone who dissect the plot and put the acting and screenplay of this film under a microscope is missing the entire point of this movie.This is a comedy, not a documentary or an historical saga, this is plane humor, dumb with a bit of a slapstick taste... The entire situation is fictional of course and that's what so funny about it. I've read some comment about this movie here and the people who wrote these comment are way off, talking like those big-shot movie critics. This is a fun movie to watch with a "stupid" yet hilarious story, simple comedy and a lot of what some people call "toilet humor" (which is always funny) - it's nothing more than pure entertainment and it leaves you with a smile on your face which is never a bad thing, right? I've seen this movie 5 times and I still laugh my heart out! :-D