So last night i went and saw a sneak preview of this movie. I figured it would be like a lot of recent mainstream comedies where all the funny parts were in the commercial. Not True. I started laughing within the first 5 minutes and didn't stop for almost the rest of the movie. Same goes for my mother, who in her laughter accidentally spit soda all over the man in front of her, to my 11 year old brother. I would warn you if you are considering taking kids under the age of 8 there is a surprising amount of profanity (when i went i thought it was a kids movie) and sexual humor. I would say go see it in theaters, it is one of the funniest mainstream comedies i have seen in a while.

I just got back from a screening.It is an enjoyable movie if you don't take it seriously. The ending was a tad lame. (How they got out of being killed.) A couple of good riding shots.There is a bit of overacting. John Travolta was not at his best. He did much better in Michael and Broken Arrow.W.H. Macy was the best actor of the bunch, although he did say "I only ride a Sportster". (I ride a Sportster) But it was in character.Don't jump out of your seat the second the credits start (hint).Several lines out of the trailer never made it into the movie.I found it enjoyable and fun. Probably more funny for people who ride, than those who don't, although all can enjoy the movie.Additionally, my wife enjoyed it.It will probably sell a few thousand Harleys, and some leather gear. I hope MY road trip this summer doesn't get overrun by all the newbies that saw this movie and want to feel "free".

I was recently talked into going to see this movie by my girlfriend, and I must say that it was a disappointment to say the least. This movie reminded me of a live action cartoon, with all of the old pratfalls, bathroom humor, and homosexual innuendos and humor that we have all seen a million times before. The characters portray every stereotype of men in middle age (wives that boss them around, kids who think they are "lame", not being allowed to eat anything but lettuce, etc, etc, etc). The script seemed like it was written by a 12 year old, and the jokes were very stale and unfunny. The fact that this movie has been #1 in the country for several weeks running only illustrates the lack of anything decent in theaters. The movie did feature a great cast (including a few nice cameos), but even that couldn't save this film. If you're looking for mindless humor and a predicable script, go and see this mess. Otherwise, save your money.

To compare Wild Hogs to comedic greats and classic movies about mid-life crisis would be absolutely foolish. Sitting back and enjoying the wild ride is your best choice in getting the full enjoyment out of this flick. Containing a diverse cast that works quite well, a handful of funny cameos, tons of predictable yet enjoyable scenarios, and a rather surprising amount of physical humor; Wild Hogs is a startlingly delightful comedy that isn't afraid to reach low for a laugh. Coming off as more than just a guilty pleasure, we have good acting running the show, as our longtime cinema veterans mesh together and bring out their best comedic skills to deliver a nice trip through the United States.Wild Hogs follows four middle-aged men losing excitement (among other things) in their daily aspects of life. Doug (Tim Allen) isn't the fun guy he used to be, Bobby (Martin Lawrence) is not able to run his own home, Woody (John Travolta) has lost pretty much everything, and Dudley (William H. Macy) has nothing to begin with. The four of them decide to take their boring lives out for a spin, and try to relive the glory days of college-- ride off in their motorbikes across the country. The main conflict is whether or not they can unleash the Wild Hogs in them and be able to reach California in one piece. The other problem arises when the well-known tough biker gang Del Fuegos crosses paths with them.The premise is something we've all seen before, yet it can still be done well with the right group of people. Mixing John Travolta, Martin Lawrence, Tim Allen, and William H. Macy is something that truly would not, and could not have been predicted by anybody. Nonetheless, this unique quartet does a fantastic job. Not one actor is overused or overacting, and we see each of the actors' talents brought to life. Tim Allen puts his physical humor to the test and succeeds. John Travolta brings his comedic chops and also is shockingly hilarious. Martin Lawrence has his good movies (Nothing to Lose) and his really bad movies (Black Night, Big Momma's House 2) but in here, he doesn't go too far, doesn't attempt too hard, and holds his own as the uncertain Bobby. Topping them all is William H. Macy, whose physical comedy tops all the others in this movie. Rounding out the cast is an assortment of cameos and short roles that despite being good were quite underused (Marisa Tomei, Stephen Tobolowsky, Ray Liotta, John C. McGinley, Peter Fonda).The laughs in here are present pretty much throughout the film, and it ranges from funny little one-liners, to physical comedy, to lowbrow comedy, to even a bit of absurdity. A bit of it is predictable, yet some of it comes flying out of nowhere (literally and figuratively). We have a nice bit of cinematography to capture some of it, including a nice shot of "death" taking a liking to William H. Macy and a brilliant game of "Bullslapping." The director, Walt Becker, knows better and lets the camera roll and the actors take control of what is going on. He was fortunate enough to capture the fun and silliness with little effort.We don't have Oscar material in the least bit, but we have material that will spark laughing riots from the audience time and time again. Like most decent comedies of this decade, its best not to be taken seriously, because analyzing and nitpicking would distract from the overall experience. Like what the characters in the film originally wanted; it was a trip with no rules, no barriers, and no remorse. Wild Hogs does just that; it was a raw, strong PG-13 ride with the violence, sex, profanity, and look-away moments that anyone on the open road would witness. Also supporting this movie is a nice soundtrack, cleverly adding some good Southern rock, Bon Jovi, AC/DC, and even White Zombie. Try to catch some subtle Disney humor involving the actors and character's names.Bottom Line: So what if the script isn't groundbreaking? So what if the direction didn't enhance anything? So what if the story became a bit predictable? We have four veteran actors making fools of themselves for almost two hours on the open road, and with very little time in between potential laughs. It was just pure popcorn entertainment, and isn't that what you want on a Friday night? Wild Hogs will not inspire you to do something, but it will inspire some conversations and maybe even a second viewing. Besides, it is rare to see Tim Allen and Martin Lawrence provide a slew of funny moments. While this movie could have benefited from fewer clichés and more unpredictability, it stands tall as the first good comedy of 2007.

I was disappointed with the film - It had a lot of potential but frankly missed the mark. By a long shot. It was not only slow to start, to establish the characters and the point, but the gaps between actual gags that raised more than a faint smile were huge. The majority of the film rotated around gay jokes which could be spotted by a blind man a mile away. But the saving grace was that the usual puns concerning the only black member of the group were avoided. Another disappointing factor was the 'oh so didn't see that coming' policeman - who was just Dr Cox, from Scrubs, in a policeman's uniform, almost as though Scrubs were filming next door and the actor didn't have time to get out of the Dr Cox character. Anyway, I believe that I have said enough - enjoy the film.

When you ride a motorcycle, sometimes it's really hot and sometimes it's really cold. Sometimes it rains and sometimes you get bugs smashed against your face shield and jacket. Occasionally you ride and everything is perfect (like the pictures you see on motorcycle ads). To a real motorcyclist, you are willing to put up with all those discomforts to enjoy the freedom of the ride. Motorcycles do not have climate control and a sound proof cabin with a built in entertainment system. People who need those things will never get motorcycling and they will never get this movie. This movie is about 4 middle aged guys who realize what they have been doing for the past 20 years is exactly what they will be doing for the next 20 years.....and then they will grow old and die. Doug, Bobby, Dudley and Woody make the decision that they are going to leave their continual, hum-drum existence for a week or two and do something different for once in their lives. Can they escape their mundane lives long enough to actually get free? People who are happy to run out their lives just doing the same thing over and over again will never get Wild Hogs. If there is a Doug or a Bobby or a Dudley or a Woody inside of you, you will love this movie. For anybody else, Wild Hogs will be a pointless waste of time they could have otherwise dedicated to doing more of the same thing over and over again.

Pretty much what I expected. But still enjoyable. Good group of actors in this movie. Got some chuckles. Should have had more black actors. Ray Liotta eas the most convincing as a biker dude.

What a disappointment I will watch ANYTHING...ANYTHING....and I turned this off. I thought this was a movie my husband and I might both like when I rented it. But we looked at each other half way through and said "This is SO bad." The worst part, for me, was seeing John Travolta and William Macy in this unfunny,poorly written, and terribly directed mistake. I expect less from Martin Lawrence and Tim Allen...but this wasn't even as good as their TV shows....Ray Liotta...Marissa Tomei...PETER FONDA!! Beside the poor writing and the general feeling of strained humor, the film is totally predictable.AS the movie got worse the names got bigger.....Do yourself a favor and skip it...The cast should have.