When watching the trailer of Windtalkers, one gets the impression that this film is about the Navajo indians and how their native language was used to create a code that could not be broken by the Japanese.  However, it turns out that this film is really about a white army seargeant (Nicolas Cage) and how he eventually befriends the codetalker (Adam Beach) that he is responsible for protecting.Director John Woo doesn't disappoint with the action sequences.  All of them are breathtaking and highly detailed.  However, all of this action tends to take away the emphasis on the story.  No matter, the scenes that show the developing friendship between the two seargeants (Cage and Christian Slater) and the codetalkers (Beach and Roger Willie) gives Windtalkers its heart. (7/10)

I finally watched this movie, it long caught my interest but fell of my radar for years. I do recommend watching this movie--at least until some independent filmmakers (or streaming studio) makes a worthy version of this story. The story is incredible. As an high-tech engineer, I am blown away by the fact that the human brain and unusual language was able to solve a real-time encryption problem decades ahead of any possible other technology. Sure, machines like enigma could be used, but, that is a heavy and vulnerable asset to drag around on the front lines. Really heroic story, and even more moving given the lack of respect shown to native Americans since the European invasion of their homelands.Incredible human drama. Great performances by the lead Navajo actors. Cage was his usual fantastic self, despite the flimsy lines he was given. The rest of the movie was---meh. Typical Hollywood narcissism. Spend most of the budget blowing things up and sending people careening in all directions in bits and pieces. Zero depth to any other characters, including the Japanese, who were little more than animated cardboard cutouts screaming and shooting. This movie should be a poster child for the imminent demise of the Hollywood glory days, following in the path of cable TV as they chase each other down in a great swirling flush. The best thing about the streaming media revolution is that it busted up the Hollywood empires, and with that I have hope in a retelling of this story by more intelligent, skilled hands.

Although the intentions are very noble (showing the world how Navajo Indians helped in the war ... through their native language as code), the movie is not that good ...You would love to give it more kudos (at least I would), but even Nicolas Cages performance just doesn't really grip you ... you are left emotionless/cold. You don't really care for them or what will happen to them. And that is a death certificate (excuse the pun) for this movie. The fact that he had to cut down the movie, so that it would be cinema-friendlier, didn't help either ... so if you're going to watch this movie anyway, go watch the Director's Cut, because you will get more back story and emphasis on the characters.

Following the justifiably forgotten Hard Target, the formulaic Broken Arrow, the magnificent Face/Off and the trash metal Mission Impossible 2, Windtalkers marks the next step in John Woo's unsteady path through Hollywood, and his most mature mainstream movie yet.The plot revolves around Sergeant Joe Enders (Nicholas Cage) and Private Ben Yahzee (Adam Beach), two members of the U.S. Marine Corps during World War II, and their burgeoning friendship in the middle of their battalion's costly advances on the Japanese army in Saipan. Cage is a world-weary misanthrope who has successfully found his niche in the military, and now finds himself struggling to come to terms with it. He is assigned to protect Beach, one of the 'windtalkers' of the title, during the upcoming mission that could help turn the tide of the war in America's favour. Ultimately however, his orders are to remain loyal to the code that Beach speaks, which has been based on the Navajo language, at all costs and not to the man himself, who is to be treated as expendable... What will happen under the intense pressure of a war zone, where men are forced together in the most extreme conditions for any hope of survival?Perhaps because he finds himself dealing with real material, Woo seems to have let his characters become real people more than in any of his previous work. The fact that two actors as talented as Cage and Beach are involved certainly helped matters, and in fact Beach even outshines his more decorated peer, as his progression from a happy-go-lucky, rather naïve family man to a battle-hardened warrior is nothing short of exemplary. Woo's direction is again the true saving grace though, in particular the marvellous shot that introduces us to the war: a butterfly flutters over a beautiful clear river, which slowly turns a vicious shade of red as the mutilated corpse of a soldier floats past... gunfire breaks out and we find ourselves in the middle of hell.Of course, what would a war film (or, for that matter, a Woo film) be without discussing the battle scenes? The sweeping Japanese landscapes are really Hawaiian but hey, they still look the part and do more than enough to reaffirm the trailer's message that `... the world's a beautiful place.' Woo's skilful use of contradicting beauty with violence can prove to be rather repetitive but it is certainly utilised in droves in these settings and, even though the carnage is certainly not on the traumatic levels of Saving Private Ryan, it is certainly vivid enough to deter the squeamish. Limbs are blown off, bodies are scattered without a second thought, and as for the fate that awaits Sergeant Ryan Anderson (Christian Slater)...
In the end it is clear that Windtalkers is not a perfect film by any means. Although the acting and direction are terrific the writing lets the end product down, particularly as it feels like there is no real end in sight, or even anything to aim for. We are never told why Saipan is worth fighting for, while the love interest (provided by Frances O'Conner in a thankless role) disappears without trace halfway through the film. Luckily for us though, this time Woo has managed to mould his uniquely romantic violence around an intelligent observation of comradeship amidst the most unfriendly of conditions, with an end scene that is genuinely moving.
All this and no doves in sight!(7)

There are already many reviews panning this film for simply being poorly made, badly acted, directed, and written, unbelievable, and gory and exploitative. A smaller number of reviews rightly consider it an insult to the memory of WWII veterans and more specifically Native vets and Navajo Code Talkers.I'd like to focus my review on its many historical inaccuracies. The biggest one is that its central premise is wrong and appallingly offensive, the false claim that Marines assigned to be bodyguards to Code Talkers were ordered to kill them rather than let them be taken prisoners. Not only is it utterly wrong, it's near impossible to imagine any Marine killing another Marine, or any Marine officer giving such an order. The claim ignores that some Code Talkers were, in fact, captured. The scriptwriter also seems to have not known that the famed code was not just two Navajos talking to each other. The original 28 Navajo Code Talkers composed their own complex code. Navajos who were not Code Talkers could not understand nor reveal that code.This code was never written down until after the war, committed solely to memory, a great intellectual feat. Imagine the main character in The Imitation Game never writing down a code he'd written, for example. The Navajo code was also never broken, nor were any transmissions ever incorrect. This was a huge strategic advantage, and the entire USMC in the Pacific Theater came to depend on the code.None of that is mentioned in the film. It would have been far more accurate and interesting than this film focused almost solely on Cage's fictional character. The Navajo Nation did make their own film, a documentary, True Whispers. See it instead.There are also many good books discussing the Code Talkers: Chester Nez's Code Talker (autobiography); Doris Paul's and Nathan Aseng's Navajo Code Talkers (two separate books); Jere Franco's Across the Pond; and my own book Medicine Bags and Dog Tags.
Thanks for reading this far,
Dr. Alton Carroll
US, American Indian, and Latin American History
Northern Virginia Community College

Woo's heightened maximalist style doesn't always translate smoothly to a rugged war movie and at no point is it more clear than with Windtalkers. I've definitely gained a better appreciation for it upon a second more expanded viewing as I'd seen this once before, but it was the rather lacking Theatrical Cut, so when gearing up for this mini US Wooathon I knew I wanted to give the Director's Cut the time of day it deserved. While it definitely lacks the raw emotional power that underlines Bullet in the Head, it feels more tonally consistent than Heroes Shed No Tears, but Windtalkers is replete with Cage's finest angsty acting, James Horner's gorgeous score, John Woo's exceptional attention to detail and requisite concerns of friendship and rivalry staring in the face of violence. This is not a story about heroes. It's a story about a man and his own demons, trying to redeem himself from war. Windtalkers is far from perfect, but heavily underrated for what it is, the kind of film where you think you can predict everything that's going to happen upon the first shot and you spend the rest of the film praying that you're wrong.

The movie is wonderful and also its story about the language of encryption in wars and this is one of the basics of winning the war and the main character is suitable for acting and dialogues between Ben and the main character about their lives. They taught me the benefit of coding conversations between soldiers and the Navy.

If you are looking for a film that will provide you with the story of the Navaho Codetalkers, this really isn't your film. If you're look for a war flick with plenty of gore and where everything seems to explode in massive fireballs (just like in the Simpsons!), this is your flick.While the title focuses on the Navaho Codetalkers, most of the film is really taken up with inflated actions scenes and stock characters. While there is some effort to show the training of the Codetalkers, how they were actually used is obscured (they didn't call in coded fire missions) and some of the scenes are just ludicrous. The scene where one of the codetalkers poses as a Japanese soldier taking a Marine prisoner is pretty silly. I guess the Japanese officer they approach must have assumed this soldier was from Japan's wild west.In essence, the "Windtalkers" theme is just something to catch you eye and make this film "different." John Woo really didn't want to make a film about the Navaho Codetalkers. This film is just an exercise in explosive excess.