This film is a mostly compelling story of the 9/11 attacks but the problem is that it's too drawn out. There is a lot of the time when nothing much is really happening. It tries to focus on the lives of particular individuals who are portrayed as heroes but this also means that there is not much material to work with.

Oliver Stone salutes the ordinary heroes of this extraordinary circumstances. He puts himself way behind their stories, so far behind in fact that he is almost imperceptible. In Italy, the academics, snobs and other fauna dismissed it as rhetoric and banal. I have the words of the laid back "opinionist" Barbara Pallombelli accusing Stone of "inventing" How silly really. The ignorance between the cultures seems insurmountable sometimes. The story was told by the two men under the rubble and their families. They were working people, not professional "opinionists". They will hum the theme from Startsky and Hutch to keep themselves alive. I wonder what pseudo intellectual would have done.The film is a gripping depiction centered mostly on two men and their families. The event caused a catastrophe that is still growing, based mostly in personal interest and massive inter cultural ignorance. The film is not about that. The film is about the tiniest enormity of the domestic drama. I wept and longed for a private happy ending. The rest, well the rest is still part of our daily existence. Most of the detractors accuse World Trade Center of not being an Oliver Stone film, if he had done a classic Oliver Stone film he would have been accused of that. Stone will be controversial even for standing still. My hat to you Mr Stone, please keep going your own way.

A lot of the reviews are criticizing the film's focusing in on 2 officers (Nicholas Cage & Michael Peña, playing Officers McLoughlin and Jimeno respectively), and failure to contextualize it in the bigger picture (or something like that). I don't know, maybe they're right, but to be honest with you, I perceived it to be a strength of the film that the movie narrows in on the experiences of two men.

I just came back from the movie and found myself being very angry. While it was a very good movie, I don't understand it's purpose. If the reason Oliver Stone made this movie is so that proceeds can go to the victims of 9/11, that I can stand behind. If they are going in his pocket that is not right. Normally I don't think like that. I don't see the benefit of it other than to open old and in some cases still raw wounds for people. Does anyone know if money is going to the victims family, or if this movie helped victims and there families in some way? If I knew there response it would help me understand the reason for this movie to have been made.

Many good critical points have already been made about this film, but I'll just add that some historical events are better portrayed through documentaries and viewing real time news footage other than a Hollywood script. This movie is an example of that.