Not one of the best Superhero films but a long way from one of the worst. While with imperfections and better was to follow in the franchise, X-Men is a good film and a solid start though with a yet-to-properly-find-its-feet feel. X-Men is well-made, the special effects while not mind-blowing are great, the film was slickly shot and edited and the dark, moody visual style worked wonders. Michael Kamen's music score had those grand, mysterious, rousing and haunting qualities that really add a lot to the film's atmosphere. Apart from the odd cheesy moment the dialogue is smart and taut with some subtle humour that thankfully did not feel out of place, and Bryan Singer shows that he does know how to direct an action sequence, tell a good story and not let the special effects overwhelm everything, a solid directing job indeed. The story, while simple compared to what was to follow in the succeeding films, is compelling and doesn't try and take itself too seriously or like a joke. The character exposition was nicely done on the whole and doesn't drag things down too much, Cyclops, Storm and Toad are underdeveloped but Wolverine and especially Magneto(who actually has depth to him rather than being a clichéd villain) are interesting characters. The relationships between the characters were also believable, Wolverine and Rogue's was a standout. And the story didn't feel like it was second fiddle to the action sequences, which weren't big and bold as such but were tightly choreographed and performed with spirit and passion. Admittedly though the Statue of Liberty climax while strikingly filmed is on the silly side at times, but it was fun too. The cast are mostly very good, apart from a stiff James Marsden(he and Famke Janssen's chemistry was very bland), a monotone Tyler Mane and Halle Berry and Ray Park also felt a bit bland. Hugh Jackman however shows great charisma as the lead character Wolverine and has a powerful screen presence, Rebecca Romijin-Stamos is a sexy and icy Mystique, Anna Paquin did bring a feistiness to Rogue and Famke Janssen is fine. Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen promise much on paper, and both of them deliver, Stewart brings a cool, classy command to the screen as Professor X but even better is McKellen, who is certainly menacing but gives Magneto a sympathetic edge. To conclude, a good film and a solid start to the franchise. 7/10 Bethany Cox

X-Men is first superhero team movie in history. Also it is Marvel's first movie with a high budget. Movie is amazing about storytelling, especially in first one hour. I really liked the world they created. But then it becomes a bit meaningless and complicated. CGI's are good for 2000. Actors and actresses are awesome with their roles, every one of them. This film have some surprising scenes, especially with Mistique. Bryan Singer made a good job at all.

X-Men is a 2000 film based on Marvel's X-Men comic book series. The plot follows a drifter named Wolverine, played by Hugh Jackman, who is soon introduced to a young woman, nicknamed Rogue. Wolverine quickly realizes why the girl wants to stay with him: they are both mutants, or people who are born with supernatural abilities. The misfit duo's genes soon bring them in the middle of a clash between two organized mutant groups: Charles Xavier, played by Patrick Stewart, and his mutant X-Men against Magneto, played by Ian McKellen, and his Brotherhood of Mutants. Action and heroism follow that lead to an epic battle of mutant against mutant.The film takes many liberties from the comic books, but it seems to work well in this setting. The movie has all the action and fun you'd expect from the X-Men, including a smug Cyclops, the rebellious and awesome Wolverine, and an interesting cast choice of Halle Berry as Storm. The special effects are good, the movie keeps an exciting pace, and the story is interesting.The problems with this movie mainly consist with the poor dialogue. This is the part of a comic book movie that needs to be the least like a comic book. Corny one-liners, puns, and melodramatic dialogue take away from the seriousness established in the conflict. Some of the fighting scenes are a little silly, especially the ones including the shape-shifting mutant, Mystique. My final complaint, which I make in hesitation, was the way some of the plot devices were handled. I cannot elaborate too much on this without giving anything away, but one example I can make is the villain's cliché "doomsday" weapon. Where did it come from? How does it work? It's just there to be there, to be the conflict and the problem that has to be addressed.Despite these flaws, the film is still entertaining and enjoyable. Action-packed and full of your favorite characters from the comics, this movie is mostly for the fans. Outsiders are in for a corny ride that the action may not justify.

Was "The Usual Suspects" a fluke?  Bryan Singer turns in a decidedly B-movie job directing this flat, predictable comics adaptation.  It's almost too faithful to its original medium, with 2-d performances from all the principals except for Hugh Jackman (as the grouchy Wolverine, he displays the closest thing to personality among these cardboard cut-outs).  Patrick Stewart is lifeless.  Ian McKellen, who was believably dark in Singer's "Apt Pupil," here only looks very drowsy.  And the X-Men themselves look like the cast of "Dawson's Creek" in drag.This film has endless problems.  The action sequences, and in particular the climactic battle in and on the Statue of Liberty, look terribly staged: just as on the comics page, the characters halt to strike dramatic poses, or dotingly brandish their "super powers" (one of them, hilariously, even utters at one point: "Storm, use your power!").  It simply doesn't work any more than if Singer had put speech bubbles above the characters' heads. Compare these silly little fights to the superb sequences in Jet Li's "Black Mask," (1996), a film shot for a fraction of this one's budget but obviously with much greater talent and vision.For a comic with a rich graphical past, the movie's art direction delivers a strangely bland, sterile look, both for Professor X's school and for the Liberty set.  Both look low-budget, but neither is quite as bad as the villain's secret seaside hideout, which Singer shot in such darkness that nary a detail can be seen.Oddly, "X-Men" looks like two different movies.  The first 15 minutes are lavishly designed and shot, from the opening flashback of Jews herded into a concentration camp to the discovery of a Wolverine slumming in a moody northern logging camp.  Then, abruptly, the flair is gone, and for the remaining 90 minutes we get a film that looks like one of the Star Trek TV franchise vehicles.  (Except for Storm's look: it's pure Penthouse Magazine, ca. 1975, with Halle Barry's vapid expression rounding out the bill.)  The villains are half-comically done, but even that is a blunder by Singer -- we don't really get any comic relief from them, and we can hardly worry too much about the X-men if they're beset by the likes of a villain called Toad, and even less when they remind us of the far wittier and better-looking send-up of all this nonsense, last year's "Mystery Men."Apart from the inanities, there is also a true sin: it's unforgivably trite when a pulp fiction like this one hijacks the Holocaust to inflate its meagre storyline and insincere theme.  "X-Men" isn't really an allegory of genocide, or even merely of racism.  That stuff is just tacked on to what is really an exercise in big fights and big boobs -- the old Marvel formula. Fights and boobs aren't bad in their own right, but they're done much better elsewhere without the pretensions to social justice.

The film version of Stan Lee and Jack "The King" Kirby's best-selling comic book creation, X-Men, has finally succeeded where more than twenty years of four-color, superhero movies have failed.  They have finally got it right...It is a stunning cinematic experience, faithfully adapting nearly 40 years of continuity into a stream-lined, fast-paced, wonderfully exciting trip into the legendary Marvel Universe.  X-Men features incredible portrayals of much of the classic mutant cast, especially virtual unknown (at least here in the States) Hugh Jackman as Logan, the Canadian wildman we all know and love as Wolverine.  Jackman seems born to play this coveted role with every bit of gruff and grim gusto; his Wolverine looks as if he simply stepped off one of Chris Claremont and John Byrne's exquisitely crafted pages.  The rest of the cast was also pleasantly well-casted and well-suited for their roles, including the handsomely chisled James Marsden as the stoic field commander Cyclops and the gorgeous Anna Paquin as the can-never-touch-but-wish-we-all-could Rogue.  Famke Janssen and Halle Berry are beautiful and bold as Jean Grey and Storm, respectively, not just appearing as fleeting shards of eye candy, but actually adding depth and strength to the flow of the film.  Patrick Stewart's excellent Professor Charles Xavier is in fine Stewart fashion, extrapolating on his Jean-Luc Picard character, and adding genuine compassion and warmth.Ian McKellan is superb as the tortured master of magnetism, Magneto, playing the part with malicious glee, tempered with an extreme form of jingoism for his cause of the militant uprising of mutants over "normal" people.  His Brotherhood of (Evil) Mutants is composed of Sabretooth, viciously and animalistically portrayed Tyler Mane, The Phanton Menace's Ray Park is the wickedly amusing Toad, and the stunning Rebecca Romaijn-Stamos is the shape-shifter Mystique.  Park actually had the most to say of Magneto's henchmen, but it was appropriate as these three comprise an awesomely evil team of muscle and not philosophy like their leader.The productions values were spectacular, as were the settings, taking us from a stark, malign concentration camp in Poland to the wilds of the Canadian north to the serenity of Westchester, New York to a mind-bending climax on Liberty Island.  The action sequences were well-paced and action-packed, and much more smoother and better choreographed than any of the Batman films.  The special effects, especially Wolverine's legendary adamantium claws, were truly awe-inspiring.X-Men was meticulously directed by Bryan Singer, who along with 20th Century Fox, actually listened to and cared about what X-Fans thought and wished to see on screen.  Although we would have all liked to have stayed in that theater for another 95 minutes, there are many more stories to tell, and God willing, Fox will let it happen.Most importantly, X-Men finally gives Marvel Entertainment Group a firm footing on film, a foundation that was never fully in its grasp until the surprise hit of two years ago, Blade.  Now that Marvel has discovered that it can succeed with its top-tier characters, the sky is truly the limit for its varied cast of great characters.  I hope that Warner Bros. will sit up and take notice at what X-Men has accomplished.  Maybe this will be a wake-up call to those studio executives in charge of Superman and Batman, and make them realize that the fans' input really does count in the end...Highest recommendation!

Though "X-Men" starts slowly, the slow buildup and great payoff proved that this film is worthy of the successful franchise it spawned.

I've always been a fan of the X-Men, since the Animated Series aired (I'd never really read any of the comics though... ^_^). So when I heard they were making a movie about them, I was counting the days until it was released. Maybe that affected how I viewed the movie, but I was a bit disappointed. Director Brian Singer (Usual Suspects) did a good job with what he's got... the multiple characters, etc. The whole project seems a bit "safe," though, as if the producers wanted to make sure this big production didn't flop. It's a good movie, but not a great one. Fans of the X-Men might be especially disappointed if their favorite characters do not include either Wolverine or Rogue. Mine personally is Cyclops, but he had a minor role. James Marsden, who played Cyclops, was a bit on the stiff side, but I forgive him because I like him as an actor. On that note, all the actors did an excellent job, especially Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellan, as the forces of good and evil. It brought an endearing humanistic side to a story I had thought was dominated by sci-fi. If you're an X-Men fan, I would definitely recommend this film--but you probably have already seen it! What X-Men fan would miss out? If you're not a fan, maybe this movie can be a starting point for a new obsession... :o)

It is a great challenge to make the first episode of a superhero series, why? You have the pressure of making it believable, entertaining, dramatic, exciting, you know what...Bryan Singer, hands down, he is a great director, x-men is a hit, and without the action sequences you would expect from a movie of this kind, he keeps your full attention, but not for long enough.The minutes fly by and suddenly you will find yourself hoping for something exciting to happen, and it will, but by that the movie has reached almost its conclusion.Good thing that there is a sequel, that it works very good thanks to this first act, not a bad thing, right??? 8 out of 10.