Not that the first film was bad, because actually I still found it good, well-made fun for all its flaws. It's just that whereas the first X-Men film did feel like the beginning of a franchise that was yet to properly find its feet, it was found with X2. X2 isn't perfect either but still a very good film that is bigger and darker than the first and all the better for it. Again X2 is very well-made, with the dark visual style still maintained yet with a slightly grander look. The photography is beautiful and atmospheric, and the special effects are better here too, they were good in the first that they're slicker, bolder and eye-popping in the way that the first film didn't quite but almost did achieve. Whilst Michael Kamen's score in the first was fine, John Ottman's score here is an improvement being more in tune with the atmosphere and what's happening in the story. The script is even sharper here and with more depth, the humour and comic one-liners are witty and genuinely funny, they are not cheesy or out-of-place nor are they too much. There is a melancholic tone too that is dark and quite poignant and the romantic elements are sweet but never too soap-opera-ish. The story is where the darker and bigger terms most apply, apart from a couple of parts that could have slowed down and explained themselves more you are glued to your seat almost the entire time and emotionally connect with scenes and characters too. The assault on the White House sequence is exciting and a brilliant way to start the film, and it is true that the climax here puts the climax of the first in the shade, it's not contrived in the slightest and you are biting your nails. X2 does a great job mostly with the characters, where they are more complex and relatable. Although once again Storm and Cyclops are underdeveloped, otherwise Wolverine is a gritty and identifiable anti-hero, and of the other characters Nightcrawler was most effective. Though once again credit is due for making Magneto much more than a stereotypical villain. X2 is very well played by the cast, with the standouts being Hugh Jackman's charismatic Wolverine, Ian McKellen's menacing Magneto with shades of melancholy, Alan Cumming's camp yet affecting Nightcrawler and Brian Cox who plays Stryker with relish without falling into cliché territory. Also good are Rebecca Romijin-Stamos who continues to be sexy and icy, and her transformation sequences are among the visual highlights of the film and Patrick Stewart still is cool and fun though his screen time should have been longer. Only three cast members don't quite work, and they were James Marsden who's even stiffer than he was in the first(not helped by his character not been used as well as he could have been), Halle Berry who looks bored and Shawn Ashmore does look awkward at times. Other than a couple of rushed, under-explained parts, a couple of characters given short shrift and a couple of performances that didn't quite make the grade the film is a touch overlength, but the film on the whole is very good and lots of fun in its own right. It compares extremely favourably to the first film and manages to be better than it. 8/10 Bethany Cox

I did enjoy this sequel I admit, but I think I'm the minority when I say that its not quite as good as the first film. The first X-men introduced us to a handful (Or two) of mutant characters and we learned about each one of them. The focus of the story was aimed at one thing but here in the sequel they have added so many more mutant characters that the main story is almost forgotten in a windstorm of action scenes. Anna Paquin as Rogue has hardly anything to do here except be frustrated at not being able to be intimate with her boyfriend. This film is definitely geared at a young audience with a lot of the characters being of the teen variety. Halle Berry as Storm is another casualty where her big mission in this film is to get children out of a tunnel. She is absolutely wasted and didn't director Bryan Singer have a better written character for this Oscar winner? The things that I think help the film for me is the mutant Mystique (Rebecca Romijn-Stamos) who is so sexy and strong that even when she's just standing there doing nothing you can't take your eyes off her. If they ever do a film with just her, I'm sold! Their is two performances that stood out for me and the first one is by Famke Janssen who plays Dr. Jean Grey. Its the best written role in the film and she shows real human complexities, she's not just a comic book figure. She's having problems with her telekinetic abilities because of the dreams she's been having and she's also torn between her relationship to two others. The other performance is by Patrick Stewart as Professor Charles Xavier who runs the school. He doesn't just posture and allow special effects to run his character, Stewart is too well trained an actor to allow that. In a scene at the end of the film his character is staring out a window reflecting on what has happened and what the future may hold. Even with all the impressive special effects in this film, that scene of Stewart leaves the most indelible image for me. I hope if or when they make another sequel that they try and keep just the main characters as the focus so the overall point of the film doesn't get lost like it seemed to in this film. Of all the new characters introduced here the one I liked the most was Kurt Wagner/Nightcrawler played by Alan Cumming. Entertaining film but has way to much going on in such a short amount of time. Lets hope they tone everything down the next time.

After a good opening sequence,the movie follows the route of a big budget remake of the first. Only i found this less than exciting infact i found it boring. A film should never cost this much and be dull. But i have to say the movie is tedious. The dam scenes look poor compared to ones in Force Ten From Naverone. The action is lukewarm at best. Patrick Stewart might as well be playing Picard,spot the difference. Only Hugh Jackman and Alan Cummings deserve any credit. All talk and no action. One Boring Movie.

***** SPOILERS *****I wasn`t all that taken with the original X-MEN movie but since it was the introduction of a franchise I forgave the flaws like the underdeveloped themes of antagonism between the humans and mutants . X-2 has no such excuses however since the plot revolves around Magneto and a rogue human general trying to start a war between the humans and mutants . Well I used the word " Plot " but just like in a Roger Moore Bond film or a typical Hollywood summer blockbuster the plot gets drowned out by explosions , stunts and special effects It`s here I wish to absolve the screenwriters for most of the blame of a muddled underdeveloped story because I can imagine the screenplay being repeatedly returned to the writers with a note saying " Okay Jean and Wolverine are in love but there`s not enough teen romance so introduce a couple of teen characters " and " The boys at special effects have come up with a new morphing effect so write a few scenes where we can show it off " Note to Hollywood studios - If you think writing a screenplay is so easy try writing one . Then after you`ve done that write another one and another
Regardless of the pressure they were under there is a couple of things the writers are guilty of and that`s the mutants using their special powers to escape from a tight spot . F-16s on the tail of the escaping X-Men , I bet Storm can conjure up a few twisters . Yup thought so and this type of cheating takes place far too often but the fundamental error lies in a way a character is killed . If Jean dies at the end of the film it`s logical that Jean should be the focus of the story but for some reason it`s Wolverine who`s the focus for much of the story which is a blunder on the part of the screenwriters So I wasn`t too keen on this sequel at all and as recent blockbusters like LORD OF THE RINGS and THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL show a good memorable fantasy adventure is down to a script that allows good actors to act and have special effects that arise naturally from the story . Cramming a film with special effects just isn`t enough any more

After the success of the first movie, Bryan Singer brings the X-Men back to the screen. He has stated X2 is the X-version of The Empire Strikes Back. He's not totally wrong: like Empire, X2 is darker than its predecessor, characters are developed and dealt with in a more mature way, and the foreboding climax is quite shocking indeed (there's even a "I am your father"-style revelation concerning Wolverine's past, which is given more space here than in the first chapter). In fact, the movie could have been named X2: Humanity Strikes Back. That's right, this time it's the "ordinary" people who are raising hell, in particular William Stryker (Brian Cox), a military scientist who takes advantage of the increasing paranoia surrounding mutants and has the POTUS himself approve his plan to take down the "monsters" once and for all. The war is about to begin, and with Professor X (Patrick Stewart) and Cyclops (James Marsden) gone, the only X-Men left to face Stryker are Jean Grey (Famke Janssen), Storm (Halle Berry) and Wolverine (Hugh Jackman), with some help from Rogue (Anna Paquin) and Iceman (Shawn Ashmore). They are eventually joined by a former employee of Stryker's, the blue-skinned teleporter Nightcrawler (Alan Cumming), as well as the most unlikely ally around: Magneto (Ian McKellen), who has managed to escape from the plastic prison he was locked up in (the break-out plays like the Marvel version of Hannibal Lecter's escape in The Silence of the Lambs, and yes, that is a compliment).The plot is loosely based on the famous graphic novel God Loves, Man Kills by X-guru Chris Calremont (the villain and the alliance with Magneto are explicitly taken from that story), but Singer makes it all much more apocalyptic (Stryker was simply a preacher in the comic-book), while also having the time to take a look at some of the first film's subplots: the Wolverine-Jean-Cyclops love triangle is taken to a new, unexpected level and the Canadian mutant's forgotten "origin" starts getting slowly unveiled (Wolverine: "Who are you?"; Stryker: "Don't you remember?"). Jackman is the standout in this movie, as we finally get to see everybody's favorite X-fella lose it and make the bad guys regret they showed up in the first place. Those sequences are a treat for those who have grown up loving Wolverine and his dual, conflicted nature. Another actor who leaves a memorable impression is Cumming with his portrayal of Nightcrawler, one of the mutants people fear the most (he looks like a demon), but also the one who's most willing to forgive mankind for its mistakes.So, with all the great acting, good writing and clever direction, no wonder X2 was voted the greatest comic-book movie ever before Spider-Man 2 and Batman Begins were released. This is one superhero opus you won't want to miss.9,5/10

X2 (2003) is the best sequel superhero of MARVEL comic book films! In my opinion X2 is the best superhero in the X-Men film franchise. This film is the bomb and it is my second favorite film alongside with X-Men, X-Men: Days of Future Past and X-Men: First Class. The effects are a lot of better than in other X-Men movies. The movie itself is great. I liked all of the X-Man trilogy a whole lot, but this one is by far my favorite!This was the only movie that I watch the last one of the X-Men trilogy, it is really awesome movie. I would say by far the best one of the X-Men movies far way better than First Class, Origins Wolverine, The Wolerine, X-Men and X-Men: The Last Stand, the third X-men movie. My favorite fight scenes were fight between Scott Summers Cylops and Lady Deathstrike the Asian chick. She way played by Kelly Hu, she was really hot. William Stryker played by Brian Cox was fantastic he wanted to find and kill all the mutants by using Professor X. This time Magneto escapes from jail he and Mystique join forces and team together with the X-Men to bring and stop common enemy together. This time battle begins in Canada. After Wolverine left for Canada at the end of the first movie to find answers about his past. Here he did not find anything about his past, in stead of that he found an underground that was Stryker's secret lab for torturing Mutants.In the first movie the final battle took place on Liberty Island in New York. In the second movie takes place the finale battle in Canada Alkali Lake. The third movie takes place the finale battle in San Francisco Alcatraz. The attack on Xavier school mutants academy was fantastic and how Wolverine killed most of Stryker 's men. Fight between Wolverine and Lady Deathstrike was fantastic. This movie was really the best one. Wolverine did defeat Deathstrike at the end. I love this movie. Patrick Stewart is the best Professor Xavier. One of the best X-Men films ever made and my favorite team one, sorry Avengers but you got nothing on X2. The themes here are so awesome and are perfectly in line with X-Men, the character stuff is fantastic and the action was bad ass. The scene where Wolverines cutting through dudes in the X-Mansion was classic Wolverine. I loved the Nightcrawler in the White House so cool! I wish that I would go in the theater watching this film in 2003, by that time I just wasn't interested watching an X-Men movie, because I didn't understand the first movie, but I do now and It is my favorite superhero film now! I love Wolverine! he is a bad ass! Hugh Jackman is a great actor.X-Men set the standards far as how a great comic supposed to be. This movie is the best out of the 3. Entertaining, fast paced, great storyline. Even if you're not an X-Men fan you will enjoy this. X2 is the movie X1 should've been. The action, storyline and CGI were all improved. Just an overall better, more complete movie. I love this film and it is a bad ass film forever!!! The plot about this film is: The evolution continues in the next thrilling adventure in the X-Men saga. In the wake of a shocking attack on the President, the X-Men face their most dangerous mission ever. They must stand united with their deadliest enemies to combat a menace that threatens mankind... and mutantkind.X2 (often promoted as X2: X-Men United, or internationally as X-Men 2 is a 2003 American superhero film, based on the X-Men superhero team appearing in Marvel Comics, distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the sequel to 2000's X-Men and the second installment in the X-Men film series.10/10 Score: Bad Ass Seal Of Approval Studio: 20TH Century Fox, Marvel Studios Starring: Patrick Stewart, Hugh Jackman, Ian McKellen Halle Berry, Famke Janssen James Marsden, Rebecca Romijn-Stamos Brian Cox, Alan Cumming Bruce Davison, Anna Paquin Director/Story: Bryan Singer Producers: Lauren Shuler Donner, Ralph Winter Screenplay: Michael Dougherty, Dan Harris, David Hayter Rated: PG-13 Running Time: 2 Hrs. 13 Mins. Budget: $110.000.000 Box Office: $214.948.780