Look, I'm not going to pretend that this is some sort of masterpiece. Though it is basically another "generic action flick", the twists that they add to it make it worth watching. The way they incorporate their "recruitment program" into the movie is fun and original, and though Vin Diesel doesn't really "act" in it, it's a lot of fun to watch. It has a few suspenseful plot elements, and the way they incorporate his status as an extreme sports star (not a spoiler, it's in the previews) into the way he conducts himself as a secret agent makes it more believable. Ever think about some of the stunts that go on in an action movie and wonder, "Okay, exactly WHY would this particular person know how to do that?", because it seems completely unlikely that there would be some sort of training program for the stunt they just pulled off? This movie doesn't have that, because whether he's on a motorcycle, skis, or whatever, you can believe that an extreme sports star would be able to pull off what he's doing. Though the plot is as unrealistic as most movies of this genre, the stunts are a lot more believable than you'll find in most.

Vin Diesel is a pretty good guy to play these new action-heroes. Like "The Rock," he's a big, muscular macho guy who men can look upon with some respect and the ladies can fall for. Unfortunately, a number of these testosterone-filled action films, including this one, are somewhat moronic in nature. However, they are undeniably entertaining.You can always depend on one thing in these type of movies, from the "biker movies" of the '50s to today's films: the hero will always be a rebel against authority and any laws of the land. Also, an even more-recent theme is to have the government actually employ the rebel to get the job done because their men are unable to accomplish what this ultra-tattooed macho man can do! It's so much garbage, but it has its moments and Diesel still is a likable hero of sorts. Like Arnold Schwarzenegger before him, and Steven Seagal, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Chuck Norris and then "The Rock," these kind of muscle-men have fairly clean mouths and at least some ideals.For pure action, the movie succeeds because, in the end, it does entertain which is the name of the game.

Let there be no doubt: The acting sucks. Even Samuel L. Jackson's performance is mediocre and definitely unexpectedly so. The plot is ludicrous, the characters unbelievable and the acting (oh, I mentioned this already) dilettante. Effects had gone overboard and factualities of science wildly disregarded. Yet! Yet, this movie was quite the entertaining one. Subtly (purposely?) funny at places completely overshadowing the dysfunctional slapstick that absolutely didn't cut it, and above everything else - it didn't hesitate. The action was brilliantly choreographed and impressively implemented.Thomas Nielsenp.s. Samuel L. Jackson should really not have been here. He should've been sitting at a table in a bar talking to Quentin Tarantino over a cup of coffee about a prequel to Pulp Fiction or what not. He definitely should not have been here. Definitely not.

This film is fun, with an easy plot to follow and a great soundtrack. the film is basically a 2hour long stunt. the one major criticism i have is that Asia Argento should stick to letting Daddy chop her up in his movies instead of trying to be a serious actress. The film is made all the better on a personal level in the fact that Rammstein make a live appearance at the beginning of the film. Vin Diesel has the charisma and potential to be the next big action movie star and has a really cool voice. Samuel Jackson gets to play his typical gruff shouting role that he has made his own and there are several stunts that are truly breathtaking, it is just sad that one of these led to the stuntman performing it's death.

Poor Vin Diesel...... He had some great potential showing in things like "Boiler Room," but he apparently felt that he found his niche in films like xXx, where lines are really corny and go something like: "Do you want some ice before your brain overheats?" It's a shame.This movie (movie, not film: film implies it's more sophisticated) threw away any opportunities for acting by making the characters larger than life (by a scale of about a trillion% ), so any potential care for the characters was instantly eradicated.xXx, in the opening act, offers Diesel's character as a, for lack of a better term, badbutt rebel (how original). He is then forced by Samuel L. Jackson (in one of his worst vehicles) to use his power for good (how original). Then he gets with a girl (how original). Then he saves the world (haven't seen that one before). In fact, the only potential way this film could have been good was if it had been a satire on action films, but sadly that wasn't the intended goal.I must apologize: I haven't begun to even scratch the surface of this blatantly unoriginal movie (the only more unoriginal movie was its sequel, xXx: State of the Union, because it copied everything the first did plus the first). Then, not only is it unoriginal, but it copies everything "bad" about other movies. Vin Diesel is a waste of potential talent, and the movie is bad. Bad multiplied by a 1 followed by 10,000 zeroes... then take that to the power of 1 followed by 100,000 zeroes. And that's being generous.

I would not dare to insult anyone's intelligence. With that said let me add, this movie will not insult yours, if you see it with the right attitude. Adrenaline pump set for full tilt boogie. This is not an intellectual movie, it is not a love story, and it certainly is not Rambo. What it is, is a series of action shorts connected by a common thread that is very much in vogue. Good guys vs. bad guys/terrorists and in so doing, overcome insurmountable odds to, 1. Do the " right thing " 2. Save the day, 3.Have a hell of a time doing it and 4. GET THE GIRL! If, you expect anymore than that, you will be disappointed. So, turn off you brain and enjoy the ride. If you enjoy extreme sports, action genre movies and bad guys with eastern european accents, sign up get ready to party. This is your movie! Oh, btw. Make sure you see this movie in a theatre that has GREAT sound. You will be rewarded.

Knowing that our government gives extreme convicts a chance to save our country makes me sleep like a baby every night... wait, no it doesn't. OK, the story, is incredibly unrealistic and not to mention some of the action sequences that go on. In general, I guess this is what you can classify a "guy's flick". But I'm not sure why, I kinda enjoyed "XXX" because it was very cool just to watch.I think just to watch these kind of sports are very exciting, so you just get into the groove of the movie and except everything that is happening. If you're looking for a great movie, I wouldn't really recommend this type of flick, but if you are looking for sheer entertainment, I think you'll get that with "XXX".6/10

The story to this movie was very different and creative. Even though people say it is a James Bond rip off, it is some way very different. The action scenes in this movie was great. Well done. A great cast for this movie. Vin Diesel was great for this part. I can't wait for the sequel to this movie. I am defiantly going to see it. It will probably be another great experience!!

If you liked the original Fast & The Furious (also starring Vin Diesel) then you will probably like XXX. I would give it a 6.5, rounding up to 7. It's not a particularly noteworthy addition to the action genre but I think it's Vin Diesel at his best and some of the stunts are legitimately awesome. Has a few computer generated parts that don't hold up but most of the stunts are real and still look great 20 years later. Puts it one notch above the average action movie. Unique rock and metal soundtrack, a fun cameo or two. It's a dumb action movie but I enjoyed it for what it has to offer. Has some good laughs, especially the "cheesy-but-cool" lines from Diesel. Similar to the quotable lines from The Fast & The Furious like "I live my life a quarter-mile at a time." Corny, but, makes you smile.