I always get excited about a new Jim Carrey movie. In my opinion, he has rarely done anything unwatchable in whatever genre from The Mask to Liar Liar via Eternal Sunshine of the spotless mind. Yes Man is an excellent feel-good comedy with an outstanding turn from Jim Carrey, Zooey Deschanel & Terence Stamp. The movie is unfortunately predictable (like most Jim Carey flicks) but very enjoyable with a hard-to-ignore message about how people should live their lives. Don't be surprised after seeing the film to start saying yes a bit more often and how much of a difference it may have on your daily life. Yes Man is a worthy addition to Jim Carrey's filmography.

I saw this movie as a early showing and having gotten the tickets for free I said "what the heck, I'll see anything for free". So right off the bat I went in with low expectations. The previews made it look like the same old Jim Carrey Schtick. However, I was pleasantly surprised. There was no ridiculous plot line (Liar Liar) or over the top characters (Ace Ventura) but a simple yet humorous story-line that is played to perfection by Carrey. There were plenty of good chuckles to be had and some down right laughs (and yes for those into it, a gross out scene that will make even this amazingly desensitized movie going generation cringe).Overall, Yes Man is definitely worth the 10 bucks or so that movies are now ridiculously priced out now a days. But most definitely worth the trip if its free :-p. *7/10*

When I first saw that my two sisters wanted to see this film, I was not that motivated initially, thinking it would be a substandard and predictable comedy with contrived romance. I don't know why I thought that, despite starring Jim Carrey who is quite likable anyway and an intriguing concept, part of my brain was telling me it wasn't going to be good. But I watched it anyway, as I always give films a chance even if the film turns out utter rubbish. After watching, I was pleasantly surprised; it has its flaws but it was an above average film. The romance isn't as good as Carrey's enjoyably wacky antics though, the pacing is sometimes uneven and there was one scene when Carl's neighbour makes sexual advances towards him that I felt wasn't needed. That said though, the concept about what would happen if you answered every question with the answer yes is very intriguing, and the script is good. Also well done is the pleasant cinematography and very good performances from Carrey and the beautiful Zooey Deschanel, who gives her Allison free spirit and charm. Howver it is Rhys Darby as the geeky, Harry Potter-obsessed bank manager who comes very close to stealing the film. Not to mention Terrence Stamp as Terrence, the quasi-religious seminar leader. Overall, flawed, but intriguing and surprisingly likable. 7/10 Bethany Cox

After commercial failures like Lemony Snicket, Fun with Dick and Jane and The Number 23 Jim Carrey could use another hit. Yes Man might just do the trick. It will undoubtedly not only mark Carrey's return to box office greatness (a 45 million dollar opening (when there are no snowstorms around)?), it will also go into history as the first movie in which the Canadian born actor gets oral sex on screen. No kidding. But more on that later.Yes Man is a typical Jim Carrey feel good movie. Like Bruce Almighty (a human becomes God), The Mask (a mask transforms a zero into a hero) and Liar Liar (a man is forced to tell the truth all the time) the film has a strong but ridiculous premise. What would happen if you said yes to every offer that you got? The story features Carl Allen (Carrey), a dull man who got stuck in a dull life. He's living the same life for at least three years now – ever since his girlfriend left him for another. His best friend Peter (Bradley Cooper) tries to draw him back into life, but Carl remains a hermit, saying no to every invitation he gets. When he accidentally forgets Peter's engagement party Carl decides to change his life drastically. He signs up for a Yes Man seminar by philosophy guru Terrence Bundley (Terrence Stamp) and embraces life by saying yes to any offer that's made to him. Guitar lessons, flying lessons, even a penis enlargement: Carl is your man. And wow, his life does get better. Carl not only gets a promotion, he also meets the charming Alison (Zooey Deschanel), a free spirit who sings in a band and has a job as a photographer. The two fall in love. But what happens when Alison finds out about his Yes Man way of life and begins to doubt if he really wants to choose for her?Ever since I saw the trailer I wanted to see Yes Man. In dark times we all need a laugh and let's face it: there's a lot of truth in the fact that only a Yes opens up new opportunities in life. Luckily, Jim Carrey fans should not be worried: Yes Man delivers the goods. The story is safely predictable and although Carrey carries the movie, he gets help from a strong supporting cast. Terrence Stamp is great as Yes man guru. Bradley Cooper – Carrey best friend in the movie - is a handsome man with some great screen presence. This movie could be his real breakthrough. But the real treat in Yes Man is Zooey Deschanel (The Happening, Bridge to Terabithia) as Carrey's love interest Alison. You can't help but falling in love with her in this movie. She's happily strange and immensely charming. I give her a 9/10 on the Drew Barrymore scale (with Drew having a 10/10 of course). Storywise Yes man starts rather nice. When Carl learns that 'Yes' means progress and 'No' could mean punishment he reluctantly agrees to almost anything – including his 70 year old toothless female neighbor giving him oral sex. I don't know what to think of the scene actually. It is funny, but it's a long way from the Claw in Liar Liar – if you know what I mean. Needless to say, Yes man is not exactly family entertainment. On the other hand, in Transformers there was also a dialogue about masturbating. So maybe Hollywood is growing up. One of the funniest scenes is the one that follows the kissing of a beautiful girl in the bar (as seen in the trailer). Her boyfriend wants to beat up Carl and what follows is a very funny fight between a muscled dumbo and a very drunk Carrey. In this scene Carrey really shows his comedic talent. Pretty hilarious.Overall Yes Man is nice entertainment. Carrey fans won't be disappointed and there are a lot of strong moments. Too bad the ending of the movie seems rushed. All the actions Carl undertakes under his Yes Man spell suddenly all turn out for the better (and that's just a little bit too convenient). The movie is only 82 minutes long and I suspect that there are a lot of scenes cut that could've given the story more drama and suspense. Despite the oral sex scene Yes Man is Jim Carrey's most romantic movie in a long while. Just watch the scene on the Hollywood Bowl stage... Well done!

This movie is a fun one has good humor and is interesting until somewhere before the end. I mean don't expect the best work of Jim Carrey here but it's better than Bruce Almighty in my opinion. The humor is understandable by anyone but not one in a dozen, it is keeps it freshness throughout.Unfortunately there are some problems with this movie as well, the movie keeps strict to the formula of a Rom-Com so you aren't surprised anywhere and can guess the plot from the beginning to the end. This is not to bad if you can switch off your mind and just enjoy the movie.Worse is the need to have a moralistic end. Without telling how or what I will just say that this forced moralistic ending upsets the whole flow of the movie and it would have made a better movie if it had been left out. The moral is to obvious and just bad.The last flaw I really noticed was the enormous amount of products which were being endorsed by the film. It was almost funnier to watch every product which came by then the jokes of the film itself. Anyway it would make a great drinking game if you would drink every time anyone saw a product endorsement. One scene particularly would get you loaded when Jim Carrey shout a brand name at least ten times.Again in short it was a good film but it could have been better. And if you need a drinking game this movie is bound to get you loaded.

I've seen this movie so many times now. It's hilarious and inspiring all at once. Zooey is perfect in her role, as are the rest of the cast. It has a great soundtrack, it's entertaining and never gets boring, it's moving, and it inspires you to get out and enjoy the world. The humour is smart, none of that toilet humour that I detest.
I think anyone can be inspired by this movie, it's not about doing extreme things or expensive things (like learning how to fly), it's about saying yes to life and yes to opportunities. Even if it it's something small.

In all honesty Jim Carrey sometimes grates on me. He's funny, but far too often his humour becomes too over the top and his characters become cartoons rather than real people. When he keeps that to a minimum, though, he can work very well, and he managed to pull that balance off with "Yes Man." Of the Carrey movies I've seen I'd probably compare this most to "Bruce Almighty" - not in terms of plot but in terms of the type of character he was playing and the challenges the character was facing. In this, Carrey played Carl Allen, a loan officer at a bank who leads a pretty empty, lonely and unproductive life. One day, a buddy convinces him to attend a self-help seminar, where he learns to start living life by saying "yes" to every opportunity that comes up. Terrence Stamp, by the way, was absolutely bang-on as the self-help guru.Thanks to the power of "yes" Carl's life moves into overdrive. Suddenly he's involved with everything and everyone: from guitar lessons, flying lessons and Korean lessons to a new job as an executive to a new love - and he's loving his life. Finally, though, his new love interest, played by Zooey Deschanel, reminds him of reality. She tells him that she loves him and asks him to move in with her. Of course he says "yes," but when she finds out about the program she backs out - does he really want to or is he just following the program? Can she believe a word he says to her? The key to the movie in the end is whether Carl can learn to really live his own life rather than just being enslaved to the program that originally seemed to have given him freedom.It's an interesting premise for a movie, very well written and well acted, and, in the end, both thought-provoking and a lot of fun. 7/10

This was a surprising comedy, because I thought I won't like it that much and would end up a below average comedy. Even the trailer didn't seem that good and not very interesting. And even when the film started I just wanted to hate it but as the film progressed I started to enjoy it bit by bit. Most comedies usually have a strong start but start to lose it's flair after a while, this isn't the case for "Yes Man". This is a movie to get back to the younger audience for Jim Carrey where the premise is sort of similar to "Liar Liar"(1997) except he isn't forced by some supernatural powers to say yes to everything. While in "Liar Liar" he could not lie because a curse was on him. In this movie he says yes to everything because it opens up doors for new opportunities in his life and it works for the better for him and by saying no he thinks bad stuff will happen to him because he makes a covenant, coincidence or not. But it just isn't something a lot of people hasn't seen before. Jim Carrey's character is one of those guys that stays in his apartment most of the time and hardly has interest in women and says no to just about everything. But that changes when a friend of his suggest he go to a seminar that could change his life for the better. And than his journey begins with random stuff happening in his life when he starts saying yes to everything while being obnoxious and retarded to the point you could tell Zooey Deschanel who Jim Carrey's character falls for is annoyed by him even while trying to act. This is a okay date movie as well since it's actually quite amusing at times and like I said has it's moments while going the romantic comedy direction. Although younger audiences will probably enjoy this movie, it just isn't really appropriate for them. It would have been cool though if they pushed the yes factor and made Jim Carrey do even crazier stuff.7/10