I walked into the theater with my brain shut off. And if you enjoy Adam Sandler, you have to. If you go by typical standards, all of Adam Sandler's movies are absolute garbage. But yet people still love them, I am one of them. I went into this looking to have fun watching a movie, and I did. Yes, it was ridiculous in every possible way, but it was pretty much exactly what I was paying to see, Adam Sandler's sense of humor running rampant with all of his friends holding down bit parts. If you are looking for a high quality, well thought-out story with twists and turns and an ending that ties it all together and leaves you walking out of the theater satisfied, look elsewhere.But if you aren't easily offended and are a fan of Adam Sandler's work, then you'll have fun with the silky smooth goodness that Zohan brings to the table.

While I've never been a -huge- fan of Adam Sandler's films, I have watched them and laughed throughout most of them. I'm the type of guy who enjoys some slapstick, some raunchy humor, and a lot of zanyness.I went into Zohan not expecting anything but pure frivolous humor. You don't go into films like this with any expectations, and I think that's where a lot of the reviewers prior to myself went wrong. They went in expecting to see an evolution of Sandler's humor, and while I would say that Zohan raised the bar a tad, it's still Adam Sandler. Yes, it's going to have a corny ending, a lot of physical humor, and a healthy dose of humor aimed at the more intelligent in the crowd as well.Overall, I couldn't stop giggling, laughing, and chuckling throughout most of the film. After a long streak of not seeing any humor films, I thought it was the perfect thing to bring me back to comedies. The last few years, especially, have been incredibly lackluster in regards to comedies (if that's what evolution of the genre is, count me out, by the way), and I found Zohan refreshing.I think another thing a lot of the other reviewers missed, is that the film in no way expected to take itself seriously. The only serious moments were cheesy, predictable, and ultimately corny, which is irony in itself and only contributed to my bemused chuckling. Yes, a lot of the humor bordered on racial stereotyping, there were a lot of over-the-top accents and allusions to the Middle East, so if you're the type to get touchy about that, feel free to skip. I found it to be a rather hilarious joke on the seriousness that everybody applies to the stereotyping. The stereotyping is, actually, rather fair and towards the end even shows plenty of "good stereotyping" (as accurate as stereotyping ever is, which is to say, rarely).Really, the film laughs at itself. Are there some bum moments? Certainly, but it seems that's been the case for almost every film I've seen in the last few years, but it was grand seeing the cast and crew not try to make this the 'next great comedy' and just have a buttload of fun.And if the cast and crew are laughing at themselves (which you can clearly feel through the screen), you can't help but laugh with them.If you want to spend an hour or two snickering and have an open mind, give Zohan a shot. Don't expect an evolution of comedy. Don't expect the bar to be raised, because that's not what this film was trying to do. It was trying to be ridiculous and make people utter that ever so fantastic groaning-giggle followed by the heart chuckle.Don't let the other critics fool you, they've probably forgotten the meaning of the word 'satire'.

The critics are out in full force and tearing this movie a new one. I can understand some of the criticism, it's a brainless comedy chop full of cliché jokes, stereotypes, crude toilet humor, so it's to be expected that it's going to receive a lot of negativity.With that said, that's exactly why I loved this movie so much. I'm a movie buff, have over 2,000 DVDs in my collection. I love virtually every movie genre there is. So, I knew full well what I was getting myself into before I paid my ten dollars and a Coke the size of Zohan's crotch.What I loved about this movie so much, was that the jokes never stopped coming. I've watched all of Sandlers movies, many of them have long breaks of nothing much to get in stitches about. Sandler is the type of actor that I look to for this sort of humor. When you're having a bad day and want to watch a brainless, popcorn flick that will most likely have you cracking up virtually the entire movie, then I suggest you see this movie as soon as possible.This is another reason why I love Sandler so much. He's not afraid to push the envelope to garner a laugh. He knows he's capable of doing a more serious role and have success. I know how good he was in Punch-Drunk Love and Reign Over Me, but he's very versatile and I can't complain about an actor with that quality.I gave this a 7 out of 10, I'm not afraid to admit that I liked the Zohan.., and I certainly wouldn't mess with him!

You know, sometimes I just don't understand what the heck is going through Adam Sandler's head. He's a funny guy with natural charisma and, I would guess, a reasonable level of intelligence. So why does he feel compelled to write and produce films of such appallingly low quality? It worked with his initial efforts, Billy Madison and Happy Gilmore. Those two films defied any sense of logical criticism. They were sloppy, yet contained a maniacal sense of anarchic glee. He seemed thrilled at what he was getting away with. Yet, since the release of those films over a decade ago, he has continued to crank out by-the-numbers mediocrity that lacks any feeling of comic discovery.It is my unfortunate duty now to inform you that his latest, You Don't Mess With The Zohan, is by far his most wretchedly awful film to date. Sandler's character this time, a Mossad agent who dreams of being a hairdresser, would probably fill a lame Saturday Night Live skit, but stretched to over 100 minutes is akin to Chinese water torture.Zohan isn't any normal secret agent; he's a walking caricature of crass Middle Eastern stereotypes and snickering vulgarity. With a Wham!-inspired haircut and a penchant for shtupping elderly women, he finds employment at a small salon run by the sweet, yet blank, Dalia (Emmanuelle Chriqui), a Palestinian woman with no patience for Zohan's sexism. As can be predicted, despite their antagonistic relationship, they soon are yearning to "make the bam-boom". Their insipid love story intermingles with a laugh-free subplot featuring Zohan's nemesis the Phantom (John Turturro) and a hapless Arab cab-driver (Rob Schneider, ladies and gentlemen...) ineptly planning murder attempts.Now, racial stereotyping and crude humor can be used to great comic effect in the proper hands. The makers of Borat toed the line brilliantly, delivering great vulgar hilarity mixed with social commentary. You Don't Mess With The Zohan is not even in the same time zone, much less ballpark. The film is amazingly hostile and mean-spirited, mocking its targets with unfiltered scorn for the majority of the running time, yet tacking on a "we're all the same" message at the end. It's like the school-yard bully who beats the snot out of you all semester but wishes you a good summer at when vacation time rolls around. Why did no one involved in this debacle pull Sandler aside and gently suggest that this material was unfilmable? Also concerning is the amount of animal abuse presented for cheap laughs. There is a particularly soul-killing scene featuring Zohan and two friends playing hacky-sack with a cat. Now, a good writer would use this undeniably objectionable act as a springboard to a larger pay-off. That would redeem the bad taste and warrant the scene's inclusion. Not here however, where the only apparent joke is that a trio of grown men are kicking the stuffing out of a helpless animal.What is almost fascinating about Zohan is how little interest the screen-writers have in their own story. New story lines are launched at random to replace the ones running out of gas. I couldn't believe that the introduction of an evil land-developer to the film occurred near the end of the second act. It would seem that writers' Sandler, Judd Apatow, and Robert Smigel knew that their material was limited and hoped that by padding it liberally, no one would notice. Hence, the heavy helping of crotch close-ups, homophobia, hummus jokes, and dry humping present. As well, the endless cameos come off as desperate and pointless, although it is amusing that Mariah Carey has finally found a fitting companion piece for Glitter.To call You Don't Mess With The Zohan a misfire is a grand understatement. It's a dreary trudge through migraine-inducing territory that is all the more unforgivable considering the level of talent involved. There's an old adage that it takes true skill and artistry to create a truly horrific film, as hacks will only produce bland mediocrity. Well, Zohan is a colossal achievement, a film that will receive endless mentions on "Worst of 2008" lists, and the rants of legions of angry ticket-buyers. With that said though, Sandler may have inadvertently found a point of agreement for Israelis and Palestinians. I think that both sides would agree that You Don't Mess With The Zohan flat-out SUCKS!

Let me just say, I am a big Adam Sandler fan. I love and find most of his movies funny. This one was not. The jokes were lame, and way too crude for a pg-13 rating. I just kept thinking my daughter was watching this two seats away, and I felt uncomfortable with the many reverences to sex. It lasted two hours but didn't have two hours of comedy material. It felt preachy about tried to teach tolerance when it came to people from the middle east but came off unbelievably stupid. I find it strange how great comedy writers like Adam Sandler and Judd Apatow could produce such a piece of crap! I wouldn't waste your time on this one. Or wait till it hits H.B.O.

I've been a fan of Adam Sandler for much of my life. . . all the way back to his SNL and 'Airheads' days. I've seen him go through many phases, from some great films like 'Punch-Drunk Love,' 'Reign Over Me,' and 'Big Daddy' to some of his lower-end films like 'Eight Crazy Nights' and 'Little Nicky.' 'You Don't Mess With the Zohan' is not one of his best films, but it's still enjoyable. Personally, I'd place it along the comedic quality of 'Billy Madison'. . . contains mostly sight gags and juvenile humour. But, c'mon. . . sometimes that's what we need. Our world is going to Hell, so shouldn't we have some relief from the pain and torment we must witness on a daily basis? No. It's not a great film. But it's funny and stupid and entertaining. And that's the reason to see it. . . don't expect a comedic masterpiece like 'His Girl Friday' or 'Forrest Gump.' Expect what the film actually as and accept it as such. . . if it's not for you, then it wasn't MEANT for you.Final verdict: 6.5/10.

The story line was crappy as hell. I felt like falling asleep. The only 3 times you saw the bad guy, he wasn't acting suspicious. It really made me reconsider going to see another Adam Sandler movie. Zohan is basically another continuation of his character in "Click." Except with more raunchy behavior. No one really wants to watch (or listen to for that matter)Zohan do a 75 year old lady. Some of the scenes were put in order that didn't make sense and many of the scenes were not even needed. I honestly don't think I laughed once. There is no other way to describe You Don't Mess With The Zohan than just another movie with humor like Epic Movie. No one could drag me to go see it again.

While it has some funny moments. It has a lot less.It's one of those movies that would have been great in 1998. But falls short in 2008. Its just the same gimmick that has been done by 'Happy Madison Productions'.Reminds me of: Chuck and Larry, Strange Wilderness, The Benchwarmers, Dickie Roberts, 50 first dates, Etc.It's just well.....for lack of a better word. Stupid. It might have you grabbing your sides in 98', but when you watch it, its somewhat like, "OK, let me guess, Rob Schneider is going to pop up and say something dumb with a 'pause for laughter' moment?" Yup.Is Sandler going to do a stupid voice the whole movie and end on a 'touching theme'?. Yup.Acting is good, I will give it that. However, if you have seen any Adam Sandler movie, then you won't be surprised with his acting choices. Same choices, different accent.Nothing against Sandler, his movies were great.......in 98'I'd wait for DVD,...if that.

There are a number of lists on the internet and elsewhere to catalogue the worst films ever made. This film is guaranteed to join many if not all of those lists. It is the worst Adam Sandler film I've ever seen ... and I actually LIKE Adam Sandler films. However, it may serve one purpose ... to bring Israelis and Palestinians together in joint hatred of the cartoonish way their cultures are depicted. Who knows. If they start hating the same things, there might be hope for peace. Anyway, that's where the 1 star in my review came from.Other than that, there's not much to say about this film. Here's hoping that Mr. Sandler moves on to much better film projects.

You Don't Mess With the Zohan (2008): Dir: Dennis Dugan / Cast: Adam Sandler, Jon Turturro, Emmanuelle Chrique, Rob Schneider, Nick Swardson: Hilarious film about achieving your goals in a different destination. Adam Sandler plays Zohan, an Israeli counter terrorist who fakes his own death, only to embark on his dream in America as a hair stylist. While formula in structure director Dennis Dugan creates his best film to date after having made such embarrassments as Big Daddy and Problem Child. The terrorist jokes are hilarious but the sexual jokes are more stomach turning than funny. Sandler creates one of his best comic characters. Zohan desires to start new and reinvent himself with a more positive image. Jon Turturro steals scenes as a terrorist who secretly desires to be a shoe salesman. Emmanuelle Chriqui plays Zohan's love interest in what first gets drown in formula romantic clichés until a secret is revealed that adds a peaceful spin on the circumstance. Rob Schneider is hilarious as a Palestinian cab driver who holds a grudge against Zohan after losing his goat. He will inform Turturro of his whereabouts although that gains him even less respect. Nick Swardson plays a friend whom Zohan hooks up with and like anything Swardson does, he fails to be normal. Lots of gravity defying special effects are featured throughout as well as a message of starting over. Score: 9 / 10

If anything You Don't Mess With The Zohan is a throwback to Sandler's less intelligent comedies like Billy Madison, Happy Gilmore, The Waterboy and then he started to find a niche in a different type of comedy with truly funny and often moving performances like Click, and The Wedding Singer. Zohan is probably just a little more his geeky childish side and holds no punches against the people in question much like he did last summer with I Know Pronounce You Chuck and Larry which did nothing for the gay community but poke fun at their lifestyle and Zohan does precisely the same thing with the middle Eastern community. That being said I don't really offend easily so it didn't bother me that much although I think it's a sore spot for the world right now. The movie around is ridiculous, corny, gross, dumb, poorly played out and yet somehow not the biggest waste of my time in the last week. Somehow it manages to be tolerable probably because of Sandler who is talented and probably because it does make you snicker at times even if you don't want to admit it. Remarkably a film like this would usually show the truly funny parts in the trailer and for the most part that is true BUT those same parts are still pretty funny in the movie too.Adam Sandler plays Zohan an anti-terrorist expert who is basically a one man army. He can do just about anything but all he wants to do is leave war behind and cut and style hair "make it silky smooth." Sandler is....Sandler. I mean Zohan is kind of a funny character in a stupid over the top, high school play kinda way but yet he's watchable. The ridiculous stunts and CGI special effects that make him unhuman are mostly stupid but honestly I think that's the point. Over the top is funny...sometimes. Outside of Sandler the film is chock full of cameo faces to make up the rest of the crew. John Turturro (who is way too talented to be in this) is forgettable as Zohan's arch nemesis The Phantom. Emmanuelle Chriqui is beautiful but doesn't really stand out as Zohan's boss and love interest Dalia. Rob Schneider manages to get another job via his buddy Sandler as a middle Eastern terrorist who manages to insult every aspect of Middle Eastern culture and they just go too far with the jabs. A high point of the film is infamous boxing announcer Michael Buffer as a crazed and evil real estate developer. He is awesome as a bad guy and really terrific in the role!! Kevin Nealon shows up for a small cameo as does Charlotte Rae (Mrs. Garrett anyone on Facts of Life?) 82 years old she is!! Then check out this cameo list of guest stars...Mariah Carey in a fairly large role, Chris Rock, John McEnroe, George Takei, Bruce Vilanch, and the amazing Henry Winkler. So if you see Zohan it will be to check out all the cool cameos cause it won't be for true laughter.The reason I'm not shredding You Don't Mess With The Zohan is simple...the film is exactly what they meant it to be. They made it bad, they knew it was over the top, crude, stupid humor and ninety million bucks says everyone thinks thats okay so who am I to argue? Plus somehow I didn't walk out of it wishing I had that hour and a half back as stupid as I felt it was. Director Dennis Dugan also worked with Sandler on Chuck and Larry and this film does exactly the same sort of thing although I THINK Chuck and Larry was slightly, minutely more intelligent than this. So if you like Sandler's more stupid comedy than Zohan is for you but if not then steer clear because this one is a stinker of a so called comedy that you won't miss much by missing this summer. I can't believe The Love Guru could be worse than this but we will see. 5/10