Whenever a movie mistakenly thinks a bad pun of a tagline ("Dupree's a crowd" anyone?) is gonna rope in ye olde movie-going audience, there is officially room to be concerned with what you're about to watch. OK, so the tagline isn't as bad as some, but it is enough to raise a red flag. However, is it enough to indicate what's to come? Welp, I'm happy to say that once again I'm gonna keep my distance from all your unfavorite (I'm makin' up words, baby!) stuffed-shirt critics out there who are giving You, Me and Dupree a merciless shredding because it doesn't meet the inherent level of pretension they so girlfriendlessly demand. That's right, folks. I, Johnny Betts, enjoyed You, Me and Dupree. I'm one of about three movie reviewers to boldly make that claim, but doggone on it, I'm sticking by it.Granted, my enjoyment was heightened due to the fact that I kept my expectations low and didn't have to pay to see the movie, but I was entertained all the same.It's only fair that I be perfectly honest and admit I'm somewhat easily amused when it comes to watching actors and actresses that I really like, and Dupree sports a great cast. Mileages will vary depending on your tolerance level of the actors involved.Owen Wilson is one of my constant comedic favorites, once again displaying that crooked nose we all love and projecting child-like innocence with his signature charm. I also love his ability to sincerely deliver outrageous and cheesy lines in ways that make them seem not quite so outrageous or silly.Then there's Kate Hudson, only the absolute cutest thing that Hollywood has going for it. She plays this role a little more low key than usual, but she's still irresistible, evidenced by her black bikini scene where she proves that she inherited what was always her mom's best *ahem* asset.Rounding out the cast, straight-man Matt Dillon's cool as always, and Seth Rogen, though woefully underused, brings an impressive laughs-to-screen time ratio. Most of you will remember him from The 40 Year-Old Virgin, but he'll always be Ken Miller and Ron Garner to me. If neither of those names means anything to you then we need to have a serious talk about a couple of DVD sets you might want to consider acquiring.Is this a film that'll find its way to the top of any of these actors' resumes? No. Is it a non-stop laugh-fest? No. Is it a film I can watch over and over and cry with laughter every time? Nah. Will you be disappointed if you're expecting something along the lines of The Wedding Crashers? Most likely.After all, I never said the movie doesn't have its flaws. Some of the humor is a little too conventional and predictable, and the dramatic dialogue isn't exactly the most compelling to grace the screen, so no, this isn't gonna go down in the Book of Comedy Classics, nor do I feel a necessity to pencil it in as a future addition to my DVD collection (unless the special features are loaded with Kateness). But I found it to be a fun, light-hearted, silly way to take a 2-hour break from the real world. As I mentioned in the paragraphs above, its greatest strength is in its likable cast and their chemistry, and I appreciate the charm it displayed in never taking itself too seriously.Plus, the majority of the screening crowd seemed to enjoy it. I've personally never had nor been a third wheel like Dupree, but those of you who can relate to such an experience might appreciate it on a different level.I can't say that You, Me and Dupree is a film that just absolutely demands to be seen on the big screen, but it's certainly the kind of movie that you usually watch with friends and family where most everyone will walk away with a good chuckle, no one will be overly offended, Aunt Ella will comment on how "it was cute," no one's life will be dramatically altered, and Uncle Larry's uninvited segue into some boring recollections about his own "Dupree" experiences will wake everybody back up to their nightmare reality.All in all, if you think no one can bring seven different kinds of smoke like Owen Wilson, and you find Kate Hudson to be seven different kinds of smokin' then there's something here for you to enjoy. Be it at a matinée or as a future rental. It might just help you discover your "ness." THE GIST You, Me and Dupree might not deliver two solid hours of nothing but out-loud laughter and the dramatic elements might falter at times, but there's no denying that the cast is great, and if you love those involved then you'll find some enjoyment here. I wouldn't pay more than matinée prices, and if you don't have a lot of spending money to throw around then just save it for a rental.

I'm a big fan of Owen Wilson when he's in the right genre. He has proved to be a considerably good talent in drama as well, but comedy is his real niche. The whole "Frat Pack" sub-genre that is popular right now is where he most belongs, and as such "You, Me and Dupree" offers what one would expect from a comedy starring Owen Wilson as a slacker who leeches off of people.What I didn't expect from this comedy was its dark side. Matt Dillon's character turns pretty nasty and his relationship with wife Kate Hudson gets rough. Likewise his confrontational scenes with Michael Douglas seem to betray the lighter attitude of the scenes involving Dupree (Wilson). The movie has a few twists and turns that I didn't expect - when I saw the ads I figured it would be an OK-but-forgettable movie about a guy crashing in a newly-married couple's house, end of story: but there's actually more to the story here. It doesn't necessarily make it stand out (it's not a very good film) - but the movie moves away from Dupree being a pest and actually begins to focus on Dillon's growing anger towards his friend as he believes him to be developing a crush on his wife. The whole subplot with Douglas' character (playing the father of Hudson) becomes quite prominent in the film as well. This is where it really takes a turn for the worse.Whereas for the first hour or so is fun and predictable in the vein of Wilson's other films, once it begins trying to develop a "showdown" of sorts between all its characters it gets to be too much. The ending sequence involving Wilson being chased by a Samoan security guard is way over-the-top and betrays the realistic roots of the movie.I also didn't care much for Dillon's character. I could relate to his frustration but he almost seemed TOO realistic for this film. You know when critics complain in these movies about how clichéd the "nice guy" characters always are? Well Dillson isn't a nice guy in this movie - he's got a hot temper and loses his cool a bunch of times in the movie. Towards the end he's like a mad, violent alcoholic and I started to feel like Dupree should end up with his wife instead.Overall the first hour of this movie is fun and entertaining and has its fair share of humorous segments - I laughed a lot when Dupree burns down a house and at some of the early jokes involving his interaction with old buddies - but the movie obviously realizes this isn't enough of a plot for a 90-minute feature and tries to develop other plot lines 3/4 of the way through, and that's when it gets tiresome. The ending ultimately left a bad taste in my mouth and felt tacky. It seemed like a last-minute ending that was filmed after poor test screenings. A relationship crisis involving Dupree is never even resolved in the movie - as if the crew totally forgot about it.I guess I would have left the theater feeling more fulfilled if perhaps the film had continued as a lightweight "frat pack"-style comedy rather than trying to rise above other genre entries. I acknowledge the film's attempts at becoming "more" than just another comedy of this type - but they chose the wrong path and just made it worse. In this case it's an example of a shallow movie trying too hard to be something else.I liked it, and I was entertained, but it's better left as a rental and only if you're a fan of the actors. (By the way, it's worth mentioning that apart from Wilson's hilarious performance, Kate Hudson really impressed me and had more of a realistic role than women do in most of these sorts of films. You can't slam "You, Me and Dupree" for not at least trying.)

'You Me and Dupree', the new comedy starring the Texas charmer Owen Wilson, represents two of the breeziest hours in film this year.Quirky and funny 'You Me and Dupree' might be a film likely to catch you by surprise. It involves two newlyweds (Dillon and Hudson) and their oafish house guest Dupree (Wilson), who is turning their new world upside down.I can't tell you what makes 'Dupree' tick so well, but something does. As far as plotting nothing seemed to be "filler" to me. Everything seems to drive the plot forward. Though it might just be "going through the paces" the film makes those paces as quick and lively as possible.Performance wise, Wilson brings the right amount of charm needed for us to accept Dupree. Dillon and Hudson are solid in thankless roles. And Douglas creates a good supporting character of Hudson's father and Dillon's boss. I'd also like to point out the effortless comedic flow of 'The 40 Year Old Virgin' 's Seth Rogen also seen here.In closing, 'Dupree' represents some very breezy summer fun in the air conditioned comfort of a theater.

The premise of You, Me and Dupree is that Carl Peterson (Matt Dillon) marries his boss's daughter, Molly (Kate Hudson), and then his best man, Dupree (Owen Wilson) stays with them after losing his job and all his earthly possessions.You, Me and Dupree is bad. First and foremost, it's tedious. It has no real direction. Things happen, and a few minutes later, it doesn't matter that they've happened. You sit there and watch 108 minutes of meaningless, witless anecdotes that involve the same people, but have no real bearing on their lives.As far as the characters go, they really aren't characters, and they really don't go anywhere. We never learn how Carl and Molly met, or why they love one another other than that they have sex a lot. Carl says stuff like, "Molly is the best thing that's ever happened to me," but we see no proof of it. Dupree is a little eccentric, but it's all been done before. I don't know anyone in real life who is as boring as the rest of the characters with the exception of Carl's father-in-law, Mr. Thompson (Michael Douglas). But neither Dupree nor Thompson perform with enough absurdity to make the movie work.The movie is too long and unfunny to be a comedy. And it's not that I'm opposed to body humor, it's that the movie doesn't even try to be funny for huge segments. I laughed with the rest of them when Dupree broke up Carl and Molly's intimacy because of his emergency with the "crapper." The movie needs more of that, instead of trying to sustain drama and characters that aren't there.Once, I felt that the movie was actually taunting me. Owen Wilson watches a clip from Roman Holiday, a film starring Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn. As he and I saw that clip, I thought to myself, "Why am I not watching that?!" Gregory Peck and Audrey Hepburn. Owen Wilson and Kate Hudson. Hrm..... Which should I pick?

I have to say, You, Me and Dupree was pleasantly surprising. I had expected it to be something along the lines of Wedding Crashes, and I am pleased to say that You, Me and Dupree was nothing like it (although don't get me wrong, Wedding is a great movie). Dupree was in a sense predictable and certain scenes were drawn out, but the overall plot was cute and the movie itself had some memorable moments, including yet another great performance from Michael Douglas. You, Me and Dupree was a charming and delightful comedy that was at times predictable, and had the occasional irritating character, but was still worth the money, and worth seeing again. If you're looking for an easy going, light hearted movie with that isn't shallow, You, Me and Dupree I highly recommend.

This is the worst, shallowest, unfunny film I have endured for years. The concepts are poor, characters very shallow and plot is entirely ridiculous. Shouldn't the Dupree character be at least likable? I would have cheerfully strangled him on at least 10 occasions. Additionally, the idea of putting him in front of a classroom of impressionable kids is ludicrous - bordering on insane. Who in their right mind would want kids to hear the "mothership" clap-trap from Dupree? The staged elements - where he is a rude and imposing house-guest, were shown on the trailers to the film and were meant to shock. The fact that there was little else of any substance in the actual film is typical of this genre. The fire scene is also much more annoying than credible. Then when it clears up so easily is preposterous. The "lovable rogue" who hasn't grown up and still has fun skateboarding with the local kids, should never have been accepted by the producers as credible. I could go on but it does not deserve further consideration. Please respect yourself and the rest of your life and do not waste a second of it on watching this film!!!!

The premise could have made for a very funny film but the jokes in this are so over the top that it just commits harikari It's not 'Something About Mary' o.t.t either, it's o.t.t to the point where it falls flat. For example Owen Wilson moves in with a moose's head? Owen Wilson is sleeping butt naked on the couch etc. Bwahahaha If you want to see a similar theme and a much funnier movie watch 'Planes, Trains and Automobiles' which has some hilarious moments but does it with some finesse for example when the cam pans out to show Martin drying his face on Candy's huge pants that have obviously been left laying around! (a much funnier working of the butt naked joke above) Or perhaps a real classic like 'Animal House' which has crazed characters but unleashes them in short and very very funny bursts This movie however sucks big time and can only appeal if you need the equivalent of comedy electroshock treatment to get you laughing

SPOILERS THROUGH:This was one I went to thinking I'd hate as I'd heard a lot of really bad reviews. Still I wanted to see for myself. I actually liked this a lot. It's definitely not as funny as the rowdy "Wedding Crashers" but by and large, Dupree was a pleasant surprise. This is the second time in the last few weeks I've disagreed with a lot of critics reviews.(The other movie being "Superman Returns".) At any rate....this is not the best comedy ever made or anything but it is a fun flick and a good summer's pick. I'd definitely say above average.In terms of the positives-well first of all was the humor which was nowhere near as dreadful as some critics' seemed to think it was. I would say, though it's not constantly hilarious, it does deliver in terms of laugh out loud chuckles. There were parts that were not so funny but then, every so often, something hilarious would happen. Best to go into this one, not expecting humor in every single scene. That doesn't mean though that there wont be some truly hilarious happenings!And then the performers. Well contrary to what I thought the character of Dupree would be all about, the movie surprised a bit. I expected this totally obnoxious unlikeable character but Dupree, though there were moments of unlikeability, retained such a lovable puppy dog quality, that it was impossible to hate him. Owen Wilson did a good job and he was much better in this then Wedding Crashers. Even though I liked Wedding Crashers better overall, I thought Wilson was kind of outshone, at times, in that by Vaughn. Here he kind of owns the movie.Well-maybe not quite. I must mention Matt Dillon who was great as Carl and, though his character was not the funny guy, it's interesting that at times, it was Dillon who occasionally (surprisingly) had me hysterical. Now here's a guy who never struck me as a comedic actor but the comedic aspects he brought to the table were of a more subtle nature then Wilson's and were very effective. And Kate Hudson did great too. Again-this was not a non stop laugh fest but the jokes, when they came, were hilarious and will still make one laugh the next day.Now-negatives. Well here's the main issue I had. It was very hard to root for anyone in this movie because everyone' character kept changing. I mean Dupree starts out obnoxious and suddenly morphs into a real nice guy. Then we have Carl who one alternatively feels sorry for and annoyed by. But then HE morphs into kind of a jerk and the sympathy starts to slow down. And Molly, though initially sympathetic, comes across at times very passive, particularly the way she won't listen to Carl when he tries to tell her about how much her father hates him. And then again there's Douglas, who can't be a sympathetic character( and he is so mean it's difficult to find anything funny about him as well.) And even Carl's porn stealing friend who winds up refusing to give Carl a place to stay, becomes dislikeable.So while the movie was pretty good, it was a bit frustrating following the characters' metamorphosis in personality. There are a lot of plot holes as well and the chase scene with Dupree toward the end I thought was kind of corny. Ultimately though, "You, Me and Dupree" is a good enough movie for a fun summer's comedy and is worth a 7 rating. Don't think to much about the plot holes and just enjoy the movie for what it is. My vote's 7 of 10.