For me, this film was like a slowed-down, un-funny, post-graduate extended version of an episode of MTV's "Undressed (1999)".So that's why I think the title is incomplete. Surely they left off the fourth word "Boring".The title "Young People Fu©king" is actually more appropriate to "9 Songs (2004)" which I found to be a movie with some honesty and heart, and avoiding the cinematic prudery that dominates this film. A film premiere in 2007 can show full frontal. But maybe not if it's funded in part by a socially conservative government.I found it difficult to keep track of which couple was which. "The Couple" and "Roommates" were pretty easy to keep track of, but the rest of them just blurred together. Would it have killed the people who cast this film to choose some different skin tones at least? Would it have killed the editor to show the couples in the same order each time? (Maybe they did, but it didn't seem that way to me) I can't say I will remember much about this film next week, which is a shame for something that comes at you with such a provocative title.While it's not a bad film (for that see "Thrill of the Kill (2006) (TV)") this film isn't exactly going to save Canadian cinema.

Going into a movie called Young People F**king, there is not much one can expect outside of what the title is selling. Yeah, the trailers made the film look funny, and pronounced the critical acclaim for it, but unfortunately, its brash title's suggestion is the only reason people will either run to see the movie, or avoid the film like the plague. And for such a great little film, that is truly a shame.The film follows four very different couples (and one three-person group) through the course of one night in their sex lives. It picks up right at the beginning introducing the couples (from one that is actually labelled as "The Couple" to another labelled as "The Friends"), and the circumstances that brought them to the inevitable sex, and then progressively goes through the various steps these groups go through from the pre-sex, to the after-sex (cutting back and forth between the groups in-between each of the six intervals).What is most interesting about this film is how many different ways it covers sex. No one couple in this film is the same, and through the film's clever use of cutting back and forth between them, the audience can genuinely say that they have sat through something truly unique. In North America, sex is always looked down upon as being totally taboo, and a healthy dose of action is what audiences end up getting fed instead. When certain films show up on the radar, like the blazingly unrivalled, albeit, nearly pornographic Shortbus two years ago, they are met with controversy and are almost automatically put down for their depiction of something so inherent to human life that we would cease to exist without it. Young People F**king is not as graphic or raw as Shortbus, but it would be much in the same category in what it is trying to accomplish.Young People F**king succeeds in being a great film because it stays within reality. Yes, there are certain things said and done that some may not find to be normal, but for the most part, the film plays on sexual stereotypes and sexual themes that everyone knows and can find solace in. The small cast of characters on-screen are real, and are dealing with real issues. There is little to no fantasy being explored here. These are characters that have had their emotions stomped on, who have genuinely real problems that just about anyone in the audience can relate to. The filmmakers know the universality of their subject, and they know that comparisons are going to be made. What they might not have realized in their developing of the stories and characters, was just how affecting it would be.What also makes the film a success is how funny it is. It never once tries to go over-the-top (minus one particularly vulgar piece of dialogue that the trailer cleverly teases at), and for the most part, stays grounded in the reality of how one would imagine these couples would interact. The film knows its audience, and it stays true to its characters. For every hilarious nugget of dialogue, there is another that is funny only because of how honest and truthful it is, and another that is truly moving. The film does not skimp on trying to make itself out to be something it is not. It wants to be frank, and it does not even try to steer around the topic of sex. And in that respect, the film delivers in spades (and real comedy unlike some of the forced sex comedies we are used to seeing).Singling out one couple or one character in the film would giving the film its proper due. Every single one of the eleven actors involved in the film make this film what it is. No they are not perfect in their acting styles, but then, neither are these characters. They pour their hearts into making the film believable, real and mature. They all work well off their partner (as none of the groups interact with any of the others), and you can see the honest and sincere emotions in their facial and body expressions (since there are many moments where dialogue is not expressed as much as facial emotion). Yes, some of the situations these characters encounter may seem ridiculous, but the cast rolls with them, and makes them feel just as normal as any other.If the film suffers from any imperfections at all, it is in that it feels boring at times. Its quick and blazing fast opening suggests that it will not dwell, but in exploring its characters, it unfortunately falls into some fairly exhausting and dull moments that have trouble picking back up. And it is the same problem with every couple featured in the film, in that they just cannot keep up with the pace the film wants to have. I appreciated the deep explorations these characters got, but I think there could have been an easier and faster way to get to some of them. It feels like the filmmakers know how they want to approach these couples, and know how they want to explore their uncertainties and real world emotions, but they just miss the mark in a few instances. It is not a widespread plague that ruins the whole movie; it just halts it from getting from one place to the next in specific instances.For what the film promises in its title, Young People F**king does an excellent job of making itself out to be a comedy, but out to be a drama all the same. It is funny, sweet, vulgar, and touching all at once. It is an excellent must-see film, if only because of how it treats its subject. It suffers only because of some boring instances, but then, so too does life itself.8/10.

What a bloody awful movie and proof that IMDb users are so middle of the road.I only saw this because it was on Movie Channel and I'm trying to get my money's worth. I was actually expecting something out of the ordinary, but wow it couldn't be anymore Ordinary. I love good comedy, but this isn't even mediocre comedy. I couldn't force myself to laugh once. The Ally McBeal "screwball" acting that has infected the minds of so many unsuspecting conventional people wears thin very fast. There isn't one ounce of anything that feels genuine. It's all so "scripted" and the actors are obviously not capable of saving the whole clichéd affair.Even worse, the characters are unlikeable in a post-Seinfeld kind of way. Just grating and totally void of wit. I offer the character of Ken as exhibit A, a 2-dimensional "playa" that probably every office cubicle jockey aspires to. All high concept and no character. Yawn.Even worse again, those pretentious "chapter" inter-titles that divide the movie because the writer doesn't have the attention span or skill to construct a solid whole from the limp parts.In a nutshell, Young People F---- or whatever it's called, is nothing more than a calculated opportunity for predictable and boring people to pat themselves on their backs for embracing something that's so "controversial" only because Entertainment Tonight tells them it is.If you thought it all couldn't get any worse, the cinematography is really flat, too, aspiring to that mid-90's "indie" thing that's so popular with artsy hockey moms.My advice: watch early Seinfeld instead. It's light years ahead of this trash with it's clever storytelling and ability to skewer human social norms.

OK.. There are a few moments of humor, but by and large, this film is intended to titillate; no more, no less. It's part of the wave of humor that has evolved since you could get away with sex jokes and nudity in the mainstream. Now that its permitted, they're "balls to the wall" with taking advantage of the situation.Don't let your young teenagers watch this piece of crap. They'll think this is the way everybody behaves. It's a Hollywood fantasy aimed at a young audience. Sex starved 30 somethings may watch it for the partial nudity, sexual situations and suggestive dialog.The film tries desperately to be hip, but fails miserably. I watched because I was misled. I can admit it. You have the opportunity to pass and see something at least minimally worthwhile.

Well, I must say, the story of "The Friends" (one of the couples) is halfway watchable with a somewhat humorous dialogue and follow-able plot. Some of the other stories were sadly too embarrassing, in a ridiculous, stupid kind of way, and overall, I did not enjoy this movie, as it falls flat as a comedy, and does not have enough drama for a drama. This is sad, since the initial trailer showed a lot of promise, and this movie won the Toronto Film Festival Award. One of the problems in the movie is the forced storyline, that neither makes sense, nor instigates a sense of realism, or much of a comedy. Some of the dialogues are sadly painful and embarrassing to watch.

You certainly don't know what to expect with a title like YPF. Maybe some soft-core action? What you get from this movie is so much more than what you thought.It is five separate stories: two exes getting together, a first date, a married couple who have lost the spark, BFFs, and two roommates with a girl. Five separate stories that come together in a way you would not expect.Yes, it's about sex, and it's about twenty-somethings, but it is also much much deeper. It is about expectations and relationships and being open to new experience. Sometimes things don't work out, and sometimes they work out in ways that blow your mind.It is seriously funny.

OK this film wasn't all bad, but god damn, there wasn't a likable character in the whole bunch. Every single one of them I just wanted to punch in the face. Predictable? Yes. Realistic? Maybe. Enjoyable? Sure, why not. But speaking from a man who has been in every single one of these situations (well... but maybe not quite) if there was anywhere near as much dialog, it would never have gotten as far as section v.Unfortunately it seems that this movie was written from one male perspective and one female perspective, as every same-gendered person has almost the exact same personality... with maybe only a few (yet extreme) differences. The only characters I could relate to are The Third Wheel and Girl on Elevator. They're the only ones who made sense.