Roommates and longtime friends Zack (Seth Rogen) and Miri (Elizabeth Banks) meet a gay couple (Brandon Routh and Justin Long) at a high school reunion held on the eve of Thanksgiving. One of these guys (Routh) is so handsome and charming Miri crudely and of course futilely propositions him on the spot. Zack happens to talk to his lover (Long, hilariously deep-voiced and confident). It turns out the gay men produce and act in their own profitable line of gay porn films. They really are good-looking and have it together, and Zack and Miri, being so broke their electricity and water have been cut off, decide to make a porno of their own. The plot twist, obvious in conventional romantic comedy terms, is that the process of shooting a sex scene with them in it makes Zack and Miri, who, we don't know exactly why, have contented themselves with hasty, meaningless sex with others up to now, realize--after a slight delay--that they've really loved each other along.Smith's use of Seth Rogen in a schlub-wins-pretty-girl comedy (there's no doubt that Elizabeth Banks is pretty) links him with Judd Apatow's productions, but let's hope he isn't swallowed up by the Apatow factory. Apatow can do anything, but in spite of the success of 'Knocked Up,' 'Super Bad,' 'Forgetting Sarah Marshall' and 'Pineapple Express,' I wish he'd go back to producing really good failed TV series like 'Freaks and Geeks' and 'Undeclared,' where Seth got started and Judd gave birth to all the good comedy.Kevin Smith's continuing appeal is his own. It lies in his faithfulness to his New Jersey "Askewniverse" regional working-class outlook and in his ability to call a spade a spade, "spade," in this case, being a string of four-letter words. He has never strayed far from his basic concerns even when more money came his way, as it did as soon as his under-$30,000 debut production 'Clerks' was snapped up by Miramax and feted at Sundance and Cannes. Smith's movies are frank and contemporary, outrageous and funny. Above all they're sui generis, a quality achieved through adhering closely to favorite tropes and locales and a posse of pals.His dead-end mallrats entering their thirties without accomplishment or future speak truth, and the best things about his movies has always been the dialogue, which is spiky and arresting and nonstop and alive, even if he avoids polish so studiously that the lines aren't as memorable as they might be. Or is it just that I'm too old to be fully tuned in to the language, even though I understand it? Relationships and situations get honest treatment, even though they're hardly explored in depth. He's also good at politics and religion, as in 'Dogma', which took things a step beyond 'Clerks.' Raised as an Irish Catholic, Smith delighted in insulting the Church, but the Catholic League didn't take his provocations lightly. Sometimes drawing on Ben Afleck and Matt Damon and other celebs, he's kept going back to the same crew of actor-friends and characters, including Jason Lee, Brian O'Halloran, Mr. Affleck, Betty Aberlin, Jeff Anderson, Walter Flanagan, Ernest O'Donnell, or course Kevin Smith himself ("Silent Bob"), and my own favorite and the most frequent of all, the provocative yet needy Jason Mewes. Smith's last movie was 'Clerks II,' which much like Zack, highlighted a sexually outrageous act in a shoddy fast food joint. A good addition here is Zack's black cohort from his place of work, Delaney (Craig Robinson of the US TV "The Office"), who has great timing and delivery, and becomes the porno's producer.In a way Zack even directly reenacts what Smith actually did when he shot 'Clerks'--he made a movie at night in the New Jersey convenience store where he was then working in the daytime. The crew in Zack wind up making their porno at night in the non-Starbucks coffee shop called Bean-N-Gone where Zack and Delaney work. Predictably, a guy (Tyler Labine) comes in in the wee hours to buy a cup of coffee so he can drive home. He's so drunk he doesn't notice that one of the new porn recruits and Jason Mewes are having sex on a platform in front of the counter. This time, even though it's put off and partly an afterthought, the main characters not only find love but success in free enterprise--with their friends.Smith's dialogue never falters. But I confess to an increasing nostalgia for the purity and simplicity of the original Clerks. That had a promise, a sense of how ordinary guys could be witty and smart, a sense that though nothing was happening, something momentous still might. It hasn't. 'Zack and Miri' doesn't take us any further than 'Clerks II' did; I think 'Clerks II' even had cleverer dialogue. This time down-and-dirty language is beginning to feel wearisome. It's beginning to feel forced. People don't talk that way all the time--at least women don't. But that doesn't mean Smith's fans are burned out. The Weinstein brothers have picked up this one, and nobody's going to lose any money. Last time I compared Kevin Smith to Eric Rohmer. That may seem far fetched at first, due to Rohmer's delicacy vs. Smith's gross-out factor. But both filmmakers are essentially perpetual adolescents who write good dialogue. Both of them go back to the same themes every time. Rohmer doesn't make a masterpiece every time and neither does Smith. But you keep coming back. I still like this vulgarian indie auteur.

You definitely need an immature and dirty sense of humor to enjoy this.

I love deceptive marketing campaigns. Usually, they make movies hit-or-misses financially, but deceptive marketing shows a lot of faith in a film, which is what every viewer should have in this one. Have faith in the fact that this film, despite being controversial and borderline wrong in some parts, is one of the funniest and sweetest romantic comedies of the decade. What happens when you mix Kevin Smith's witty and snappy dialog with the outrageous humor of a guy like Seth Rogen? Pure brilliance, that's what.Z&M is a movie of depth and emotion. Yes, I'm talking about the movie with the extremely blunt title. What I like about both of our 'names', Smith and Rogen, is that no matter how raunchy they get, no matter how much they cross the line, they have a habit of making their films have real heart. It's the same here, and it looks like everyone involved had fun making the film...in every sense of the word...What makes the movie work so well is the amazing platonic and romantic chemistry of the two leads, Rogen and Elizabeth Banks (who is quickly becoming one of my favorites). I can't think of two performers who have skyrocketed more in terms of fame over the last three years, and to see them together again after The 40 Year Old Virgin was a good treat. They work so well together that I found myself smiling at them in pretty much every scene they share (or, 80% of the movie), and it makes the experience so much better. They really make you feel comfortable and warm inside (I can hear the sex jokes coming already).It's not just our wonderful leads that make the movie great, it's performers like Jason Mewes (playing a variant of his usual 'Jay' character), Jeff Anderson, and Craig Robinson that really help, because any scene without Banks & Rogen together has Robinson or Mewes, who form a type of foundation for the great performances of Banks & Rogen. Of course, the film features a few porn stars and a few cameos as well, the best coming from Justin Long and Brandon Routh. I was dying.Of course, not only do you get heart with Rogen and Smith, but you get surefire jaw dropping jokes that will make you say, "did they really just do that?". One of the jokes I'm speaking of comes at Jeff Anderson's expense. The vulgarity of Rogen's comic style, mixed with Smith's wicked fast writing is the perfect compliment and a great recipe for laughter. Z&M certainly won't deliver as many laughs as films like Superbad or Knocked Up, but that's mostly because the film is more serious, desperate, and shorter (but of course, still very light hearted).I guess the only thing I didn't like was the lack of resolution with the subplot of the actual porno, but that's just wishful thinking, as the end is more than satisfying (as well as clever and hilarious). People are obviously going to be hesitant about seeing this movie because of the blunt title and risqué plot, which in of itself is hilarious, but these reluctant people need to realize that the sex is outweighed by the love, and the raunch outweighed by the righteousness. Zack & Miri Make A Porno is one of the best romantic comedies of the decade, as well as of the year. It's a fun, sweet, heartfelt raunchfest that will leave you laughing your ass off and having a good time. It's the perfect date movie if the person you're taking is receptive to the idea of seeing a movie like this.

I've liked this movie since it was released in 2008. I watched it for the nth time last night, and never really noticed how well scored the movie is until then. When Hey by Pixies is played during the house party I could have sworn he had written that scene with that song in mind. The movie hits every beat of the song perfectly. Also a highly quotable movie with great casting all around. A Kevin Smith film with Jason Mewes AND Seth Rogen, now that's right down my alley 👌 only complaint would be that I would have loved a cameo from Smith himself.

I liked this film a lot. Elizabeth Banks is a very competent actress. Kevin Smith is one filmmaker whose films I never miss. I dislike Seth Rogen with a vengeance - I simply do not buy his comedy act. He comes across as a really cruel person who is trying hard to play an regular nice guy. This is just intensely subjective personal opinion.Anyway, while I was watching this film, I couldn't help but think about the French writer Michel Houellebecq. He is someone who has been critical about Western sexual liberation. So Zack and Miri is about a platonic couple who decide to make a porno film to escape poverty. I know its not supposed to be taken seriously beyond a certain level. And I am not really a conservative person. But Houellebecq's books have had an impact on the way I looked at sexual liberation. It basically creates haves and have nots - some people are getting laid, but some aren't. This is trivialized in the film. And the film seems to suggest that even ugly people do get laid.I am sure I am seeing too much into all this. It is just supposed to be an entertaining movie, I guess. And I did find it to be quite entertaining, though it is nowhere as good as Clerks or Chasing Amy. Before I forget, I liked the way Kevin Smith used the guitar solo from the Pixies song "Hey" in this film. It was a nice touch.

Seldom (if ever) do I remember the mere contents of a films title causing such a fuss prior to release. The MPAA must have something very large protruding from their rectums, as to feel the need to initially slap Kevin Smith's latest effort with NC-17 rating. I don't know what the fuss is all about, but when Hostel: Part II can get an R, and Zack and Miri is in question, there is something rotten in Hollywood.The simplest explanation is that they felt the title 'Zack and Miri Make a Porno' publicly (such as on posters and commercials) divulged too much "information" regarding the raunchy content of the film. After watching Zack and Miri, I was quite shocked. Other then the frequent but not abnormally high occurrence of f-bombs, a quick male frontal scene and some shots of breasts, the movie is by Kevin Smith standards, tame. Even when comparing it to recent Judd Apatow flicks such as The 40-Year-Old-Virgin and Forgetting Sarah Marshall the structures are similar; they exhibit the same abundance of cussing, very similar subject matter and even use the '08, 'Full Monty' craze, yet all received R ratings. All that is left is the world Porno, which in the context of the film is not outrageous or unnecessary, and will not cripple the youth of North America. If I hear a case of a child's ears and eyes bleeding after exposure to the word Porno I will cheerfully retract my position.Kevin Smith is the original king of gross-out comedy, with his classic film Clerks, ranking as one of my favourite all time comedies. After chick flick-ish efforts such as Chasing Amy and Jersey Girl, Smith has fused these two styles together into a film that exhibits equal parts raunch and sweetness. Although similar to the Apatow formula, Zack and Miri is easily distinguishable as a Kevin Smith film, even with the casting of Apatow regulars Seth Rogen and Elizabeth Banks. Disregarding all the hullabaloo, this film is simply funny. Plain and simple. Those who are at all interested should seek it out. If this is not your cup-o-porn, I mean tea, then don't go watch it and call it outrageous. (Unless you mean it in a positive light) Seth Rogen plays Zack, who shares a platonic relationship with his long time friend Miri (Banks). Finding themselves in dire financial straights, they try to enjoy the little things in life wherever possible. Following an eventful High School reunion, Zack gets the idea that all crosses through our mind at one time or another; make a porno with Miri to drag themselves out of the gutter. While initially reluctant, Miri comes around and they begin production. Zack secures finances from his coffee shop co-worker Delaney (Craig Robertson), and then begins casting, securing the likes of Lester (Smith regular Jason Mewes), a stripper named Lacey (Katie Morgan), a 'specialist' named Bubbles (Traci Lords) and an oddball named Barry (David Early). Zack also recruits his hockey team-mate Deacon (Jeff Anderson, who you will recognize from Clerks) to film.During the shoot however, something happens between Zack and Miri, and they begin to realize what they actually knew all along. The latter portions of Zack and Miri are mostly devoid of raunch, and devote time to the budding relationship of the two leads. Rogen and Banks exhibit excellent chemistry and the solid scripting by Smith makes the characters seem like real people. The two portions while strong on their own do not mesh seamlessly, but works well enough for me to still put forth a strong recommendation. This film is worth seeing for the scene stealing work by Justin Long alone, as the man who sets off Zack's porno-inspired ambitions, as well as for the funniest 'poo' joke since, well, this decade at least. Zack and Miri will make good on making a porno, but they will make something else as well. They will make you laugh.7.5 / 10

http://eattheblinds.blogspot.com/Kevin Smith thinks he's funny much in the same way Quentin Tarantino thinks he's cool. Problem is, they're not and their continued attempts to prove otherwise have become incredibly grating. While Tarantino once made good films heavily inspired by great films, Smith has always been a true auteur: singular and influenced by no one but himself. Zack and Miri Make a Porno is conclusive proof Smith's unique style will never change, it will never mature and it will always suck. There's nothing wrong with that if you're a frat boy and you love puerile, telegraphed jokes, but let's be real...Smith's sh** stopped being funny about five minutes after Clerks.The words in Smith's screenplays rain down like an epic hail storm, with so much crammed into the mouths of his actors, audiences have little ability to breathe, let alone watch a movie. But the fact is, Smith doesn't make movies, he writes dialogue and if there is a less visual director working, you would have to go all the way back to the pre-movie days of radio to find him. Worst of all, Smith's dialogue is rarely funny or smart, it's merely a rambling tirade of profane, pop-culture inanity, singular in its authorial voice. Good writing doesn't scream out loud who wrote it, just like good film-making shouldn't. Unfortunately for the very few of you who plunked down money to see this movie, Kevin Smith is neither a good writer nor is he a good director, he's just another narcissist in love with his own patented brand of verbal diarrhea.

I saw this movie at the opening of Fantastic Fest in Austin, with Kevin Smith live. The whole theater was roaring with laughter for at least 3/4 of the movie. If you're a fan of his films, you won't be disappointed. If you're not, get the hell on board, cause this movie is hilarious. The movie has some of his most classic scenes by far, with some great performances and spectacular lines by Justin Long, Rogen, Mewes, and Craig Robinson who steals the show. I guarantee you won't leave the theater unsatisfied. It's like Clerks 2 had sex with Dogma, and left the horrendous emotional scenes at the door, and kept the bad ass dialogue thoroughly intact.

For those who love the movies of Kevin Smith (the King of Bathos) as much as I do, it's important that you wait until you see the bluescreen before you leave the theater. That's right, watch the titles, wait *through* the color bar, and don't leave until you see the parental guidance screen (again). I'd be writing a spoiler if I told you why, but if you like this movie you'll want to keep watching till it's *all over*.This clearly is not a movie for prudes or anyone who can be offended by (in no order) making fun of gay people (in a friendly way), making fun of heterosexual people (in a friendly way), poop jokes, in fact, jokes about or show of any bodily function, including copulation, swearwords of any variety, making fun of sex, making fun of marriage, someone sitting on a toilet, um well, offended by just about anything. In fact, if you can be offended by anything except violence and intolerance, this movie is probably not for you.However, if you'd like some lighthearted fun about cappuccino-flavored love, and you like Kevin Smith's stuff, go for it.