From nothing means Zombie stories don't have much in it except from zombies and a nerdy guy who saves the world and becomes a hero. That's why Zombie movies aren't my favorite, except for Zombieland.
I probably had the best movie dialogue of the month in this one. "That's like asking who Gandhi is!"
The whole Bill Murray house was exceptional. I can't believe I saw the full House of Bill Murray. I felt as if I was literally seeing him.
Could have shown more of the house, it was indeed fun.
The four actors were remarkable, mainly the top 3! Tallahassee looked a perfect Texas man. They chose him correctly.

Arguably one of the finest horror comedies of all time is Edgar Wright's Shaun of the Dead, and since its release in '04, there have been a good number of wannabes. Based on the trailers for Zombieland, however, I thought that the film had some serious potential to match Shaun in terms of quality, possibly even usurp it. Having seen the film, I'm happy to say that Zombieland does just that.Unlike many comedies in recent memory, in which the majority of laughs are already provided by the trailer, Zombieland is filled to the brim with laugh-out-loud moments, thanks largely to the brilliant cast. Eisenberg is awesome as the main protagonist, Columbus, portraying that sense of vulnerability and awkwardness, without becoming too Michael Cera-like. Emma Stone and Abigail Breslin are also terrific as the sweet, yet tough Wichita and the more-mature-than-she-seems Little Rock, respectively. The real stand-out performance, though, is Woody Harrelson as the Twinkie-lovin', zombie-hatin' Tallahassee. Next to that of Woody Boyd on Cheers and Frasier, this is definitely the best performance of his career. There's also a painfully hilarious cameo appearance about mid-way through the film that would be a crime to spoil. Suffice it to say, this is – hands-down – the best cameo that I've ever seen in a film.The most surprising aspect of Zombieland, to me, is how much heart there is. All of the characters feel warm and alive, and what drama there is to be found feels extremely sincere. Ultimately, you feel invested in the story and the characters, which – I think – is the most important thing any film of any genre can do.Zombieland has instantly become a horror favorite of mine (comedic or otherwise). The – for the lack of a better word – quotable dialogue, consistently hysterical tone, and endearing characters, all come together to create a film that will undoubtedly become a cult classic.

I just was exiting the theater after seeing '9', which is also worth a look, when my friend and I were offered tickets to a preview screening of Zombieland, which began almost immediately. I had seen previews for this picture, but I'd say this exceeded my expectations, which isn't to say masterpiece, but it was certainly entertaining, and at about 90 minutes, didn't really overstay it's welcome. As you might expect for this genre, it's quite gory, so don't go expecting a light 'R' rating. But if you can handle some bloodshed, no, make that a substantial amount of bloodshed - but perhaps I should add in a comic environment - there's some pretty funny stuff here. Woody Harreleson and Jesse Eisenberg make an amusing odd couple and Emma Stone was fine for this material, although she and Abigale Breslin had slightly less to do. I'm certainly no expert on the horror genre or the zombie sub-genre, but I can say that this wasn't as scary as Shaun of the Dead, in fact not very scary at all, I may have jumped back just a tiny bit a few times; however I may have laughed more. However I'm sure it does make a difference that I saw 'Shaun' alone on DVD, while 'Zombieland' I watched in a theater full of people laughing, clapping and cheering. Let's face it, you know what's going to happen in this flick, but I'm happy to say, plot conventions and all, this delivers enough laughs so if you know what you're getting into I doubt you'll regret laying down the price of admission for this sucker. Should you see it, see it opening night - if I haven't made it clear enough already, this is the kind of movie where the more enthusiastic people in the theater, the more fun it will be. And to end on a very positive note, 'Zombieland' does feature what just might go down in history as the best celebrity cameo of all time.

Overall it is worth to watch once, because on the special effect and well done slow motion beats and falls. Shots really hit, and bodies fall hard. Characters are good, Harrelson is excellent as always, whatever he plays.Poens are well known from films we saw, except a few, but 2-3 good laugh not what I expect for a one and a half hour long comedy. Some scenes are expressly boring or deja-vus.The worst what made me completely get far from the experience of seeing a movie is the smell of commercial. Maybe only I don't get it, because I am not American, but I saw a lot of Twinkies and one big BM commercial. Don't misunderstand me, I am really a fan of Mr. M. But I don't understand what is he doing in this movie. What that scene is all about? Is it a commercial for him (he doesn't need it) of a kind of monument? Anyway, the rules the film says are good for our everyday lives to not get zombies, if you know what I mean. But the packing is a half-success.

If you fancy watching a film about Zombies then something called "Zombieland" would feel like the best course of action. Unfortunately though Zombieland is very far from the rom-zom-com it's emulating, i.e. Shaun of the Dead. Shaun of the Dead had a great love and affection for this genre and played to it beautifully, interweaving sharp comedy with drama. Zombieland attempts this but ends up being a teen road movie that just happens to be set after the zombie apocalypse and I did not want to see a teen road movie. Don't get me wrong there are some good moments and the film starts off quite promising. However after Columbus (Eisenberg)and Tallehasse (Harrelson) meet the two girls it's begins to lose it's shine. The real problem with this film though is the poor writing. For a start the two girls are instantly unlikeable and the sudden attraction Columbus has for Wichita seem tacked on. Tallahasee's search for Twinkie (think thats how you spell it, I'm British so they're not well known over here) screams of smack you in the face product placement. Then there's the plot holes, oh so many plot holes... 1 - How did the girls manage to get past the zombies in the supermarket when they immediately noticed Columbus and Tallahasse? 2 - Why did the girls hide in the back of the supermarket on the extreme off chance that someone not zombie-fied would stumble upon them? 3 - Why bother conning the guys out of their car and weapons when there's millions of cars and guns just lying around? 4 - The amusement park was meant to be zombie free so why smash open the gate with the car to get in, thereby paving the way for zombies to enter? 5 - Since it's shown that zombies can easily climb why did the girls think a paltry 6 foot wooden fence surrounding the park would hold them back? 6 - Correct me if I'm wrong but if you live in a world over-run with homicidal, flesh eating zombies then surely you'd want to keep a low profile? Why then when you finally get to this supposed zombie free amusement park would you turn all the power on, lighting the place up like a Christmas tree? 7 - How did they manage to get on and off the boat ride without someone else to start and stop it? 8 - Why go on the ride that shoots you straight up to avoid the zombies when you know it'll immediately come back down? 9 - And finally, who's running all the power stations? Everything seems to be working without any problem. You can watch TV, pump petrol, even start up an entire amusement park yet surely the power would be the first thing to go?In all the premise was interesting, though not original, and could probably have worked a lot better with some better writing and perhaps playing to the fact it's a coming of age road movie which just happens to be set after the zombie apocalypse.

Jesse Eisenberg plays a socially inept, neurotic young man who has survived a zombie apocalypse. He also narrates much of the film. The result is a parody of zombie films that feels similar to some early Woody Allen films."Zombieland" is grossly gory and tongue-in-cheek. It pays homage to many films of the zombie genre and dozens that are not. Surprisingly funny, its humor is spot-on and effective, helped by a strong cast that includes Woody Harrelson, Emma Stone, and Abigail Breslin.The script hits the right notes continually, whether they are comedic or tender. And each twist feels right, keeping things interesting. The film never lags; it just shifts into a different gear.This is a surprisingly fun film and it feels like it would stand up to repeated viewings.

I enjoyed Zombieland, and yet I was left feeling unsatisfied. It seems to have been well reviewed because there is nothing necessarily bad about the movie, but beyond a few laughs, there really isn't much good about Zombieland either. I wanted to like it, and I enjoyed the first two thirds of the movie, but then I got this sinking feeling that it just isn't going anywhere. There's some stabs at character development, but it is incredibly simplified - the main character is a neurotic baby Woody Allen type, Tallahassee is tough because he lost someone or something, and the girls don't trust anyone, because... they just don't. Some people have been comparing this to "Shaun of the dead", but I think that was a vastly superior film, mainly because the zombies were an actual threat in "Shaun". In Zombieland, the zombies exist more for their slapstick appeal. The plot is loose and unconnected, and makes no real sense. This is a movie that cried for a dark side, just a glint of pain, disaster, personal loss. I was not a fan of the ending either, it felt like a TV ending, leaving everything open so there can be a sequel, and almost nothing is resolved. The acting is solid, I have to lay the blame on the script, the story's arc was weak, even if many of the scenes were strong. Finally, don't get me wrong, it's worth seeing, just not worth gushing over.

Zombieland is hardly a plot-heavy and dramatic masterpiece, but it IS very, very funny, and not funny in a way you're used to seeing in a comedy.There are very few jokes made, the humor is more from people doing things that people might normally do, just filmed very well in a humorous fashion.Oh, and the movie has lots of zombies and other awesome stuff that surround this entire idea of having every situation be the biggest "What the frack?!" you can possibly imagine.The small cast was obviously having a great time when they made it, and all four characters did a very good job of fitting with the style of the movie.Lastly, while the whole movie is hilarious, one scene in particular will have you in fits, one of the funniest single little scenes I've ever seen. But, no spoilers here!

A captivating opening credit sequence with blasting Metallica and blasting gore deteriorates into the worst zombie movie ever made. I pity the poor editors who had to watch their beautiful introduction followed by 90 minutes of swill, but I feel more pity for myself for having paid a fat $2 to see the movie. Twitchy Jessie Eisenberg (now inexplicably cast in everything, always playing the same nebbish, virginal dweeb) provides an even more twitchy voice-over that makes the combination of Eisenberg's pompous pre-Raphaelite face and boring, self-deprecating personality an unbearable combination. The female characters are twice as malignant as any zombies wasted on screen. I literally prayed for the 12 year old girl to be killed and eaten within the first 15 minutes, securing her repugnant presence a place right up there with Short Round from "Indiana Jones & The Temple Of Doom". Woody Harrelson's hillbilly zombie-killer is an exhalation of straight bottom-burp, with his podunk antics lifted straight out of some cartoon. Meanwhile, the surprise cameo in the movie earns some laughs, but--much like the Metallica in the credits--neither element redeems this wretched flick. The extensive CG gore made me feel even more alienated from the lurching masses of cheering, morbidly obese geeks in black jean shorts attending.