I attended the North American premiere of "Black Book" at the Toronto International Film Festival. Although my main interest lies in independent film, and I did see many indies as well as foreign films and documentaries in Toronto, I also saw a few of the "Gala" selections. Of those "big movies" on my list, the one which impressed me the most was this Dutch production from Paul Verhoeven. Set in Nazi-occupied Holland during World War II, the film centers around a young Jewish woman named Rachel, who changes her name (and hair, and personality, and more) to Ellis and enters an odyssey of determination and sheer luck in an effort to survive what would otherwise be certain death.Make no mistake about it: this is an epic in the true sense of the word. The visuals are stunning. Everything about the production from the sound to the effects to the score says "big budget." The story is chock full of more twists and turns than just about any film I've seen in this genre. And just when you think that, perhaps, Verhoeven is beginning to stretch the bounds of credulity, you realize (at the end credits, if not before) that "Black Book" is based on fact.Most of all, the film's power is due to the magnificent acting of Carice van Houten. Her Rachel/Ellis is a character so unique, so original, that it holds up against the great heroines of contemporary cinema. Combine her marvelous performance with a wonderful story and superb production values and you end up with a thrill ride from start to finish. "Black Book" left me breathless.

Saw it at Toronto Int. Film Festival with Paul Verhoeven and Carice van Houten on stage. This movie has Verhoeven's trademark stamp all over it. It's evident this film was a more personal project for him. Non stop action and good acting, especially from the lead actress, Carice van Houten. I've seen other films (American and French) about Resistance fighters during WWII, but non of them gripped me by the throat like this one. I admit Verhoeven is at times a bit heavy-handed, especially the sound effects of German machine guns, but the story never sags. It's a "By the seat of your pants" type of movie. After you leave the theater, the impact of the story stays with you for days. Go and see it when it comes to your local cinema in North America. I highly recommend it.

I seem to be the first in the US to comment on this film after having seen it at a regular theater.There's no sense in talking about the movie's plot as so many others have already done so.My fiancée is German and tends to be interested in those artsy foreign films. Tonight she decided we should go see this one. I'm glad we did.I've seen a number of Paul Verhoeven's films and have found some of them quite entertaining, if a bit tacky and unrealistic. I wasn't expecting much from a Dutch film by a guy known for making big budget, tacky films.I was pleasantly surprised by this film.Yes, it most certainly IS a Paul Verhoeven film. Gratuitous nudity and violence seem to be his hallmarks and they're certainly not lacking. Do they detract from the movie? A little, but not enough to lose sight of the message of the film - or to make it any less enjoyable.We had recently seen "The Lives of Others" which starred Sebastian Koch. It made his character oddly familiar. I'm certainly a fan of his after seeing his performance in both of these movies.As for Carice van Houten... well, one of the marks of a true STAR is that you just can't take your eyes off of him or her. It isn't just beauty; there are plenty of beautiful women in the world who don't possess that same star quality. It isn't just talent, either; there are many very talented actresses out there who just don't draw you in in the same way. Carice van Houten has it all: she's beautiful in a very real way and an amazing talent - and has that something special that makes you look at her every second she's on screen. I hope the directors of the world take note of her because she deserves the stardom she has exhibited in this film.It is good to see a film that depicts how the hunted can easily turn into the hunter. My fiancée's mother was a young girl during WWII who's family lived in Poland (near Gdansk aka Danzig). Towards the end of the war, they were forced to leave their home in fear for their lives - both from the advancing Russians and the local Poles exacting revenge for what other Germans had done. The film said it in a slightly different sentence, but it is right in bringing across the message that people seem to never learn: that it is NEVER right to hurt others no matter what they might have done in the past.I wonder if Paul Verhoeven's family is Jewish because he really seems to identify with the never ending succession of attacks against the Jewish people. It saddens me that only ONE other review even mentioned the scene at the end where Rachel's community (in Israel) was being attacked. Part of the film's message is that we seemed doomed to repeat our inhumanity to our fellow man.Was this a perfect movie? Certainly not. Is it a masterpiece ala "Schindler's List" or "Full Metal Jacket" or "Saving Private Ryan?" Probably not. But I'll say that in the several hours since I've seen it, I can't stop thinking about it. And I certainly enjoyed every minute of that 2-1/2 hour film while watching it. I'd watch it again if I had it on DVD.

Coming from the director of "Robocop", "Total recall", "Basic instinct" and "Hollow man", this movie has more of the hallmark of a spy thriller than a holocaust epic. While billed as "based on true events", an assertion that is so vague that invites unabashed overuse, this movie comes with such a proliferation of twists that it epitomizes the cliché "truth is stranger than fiction". Still, the basic plot is quite simple, and as universal as "Star wars" – good against evil. The good is the Dutch underground resistance during Nazi occupation. The evil is a loose organization that rounds up and kills Jews, where racial motivation is only secondary, if at all. They don't kill any Jew, but only rich Jews, for obvious reasons. The tantalizing suspense is in the guessing and then revelation of the villains, one after another.Those who remember "Basic instinct" (and who wouldn't?) will know of course that suspense is not director Paul Verhoeven's only trump card. At 68, he can still deliver the sensual lure you expect, through the protagonist Rachel, a "Greta Garbo" of a young Jewish singer who, after her rich family was killed by the villains mentioned above, joins the underground resistance – ready, willing and able to "go all the way" in vindication. Fresh-looking, mesmerizing young Dutch actress Carice van Houten has both the physical endowment and emotion acting range to give a memorable performance. Playing opposite her, as a Nazi officer who still has a heart, is Sebasitan Koch, who is equally memorable, not in this movie, but in his recent appearance in the Oscar winning German movie "The live of others".Watching "Black book" will not give you the sense of artistic elation you get after watching "Schindler's list" (and even that one some consider to be too commercialized), but is nevertheless 145 minutes of good entertainment.

I saw this film last night at the Toronto International Film Festival and enjoyed it quite a bit. I wouldn't describe it as excellent, but it's definitely entertaining, and my interest never waned despite the nearly 2.5 hour length.The film concerns one young Jewish woman's attempt to stay alive during WWII by any means necessary. Through a series of allegiances which shift with dizzying speed, she does whatever she has to do to survive.Without giving away any plot details, I'll briefly describe my impressions of the film. The lead actress was great - not only is she stunningly beautiful, but she completely made the movie for me. She's very easy on the eyes, and proves to be a remarkable actress, completely believable and sympathetic.The plot moved along swiftly and never lost momentum, although the ever-shifting loyalties and allegiances became overwhelming after a while. Having said that however, the plot did seem a bit predictable and obvious to me, a sort of paint-by-numbers approach to script writing. I didn't find it very suspenseful, although our heroine is such a sympathetic character that I found myself rooting for her throughout, wondering how she'd make it through (since the film is one long flashback, one already knows she'll make it).For a European film it was surprisingly Hollywoodesque, with lots of gratuitous violence and nudity - although I didn't mind the nudity. There were a few scenes which seemed particularly gratuitous and unnecessary: two words - "shit bucket". But luckily these didn't distract too much from the plot.All in all it was an above average movie and well worth seeing if you're a fan of WWII films and don't mind watching a beautiful young woman light up the screen for two hours or so.

I am no Paul Verhoeven fan, but I notice he is one of those rare directors liked both by the lowbrow and the highbrow critic; the former enjoys his penchant for nudity and violence, the latter appreciates the self-consciously campy, "wink-wink" quality of his movies.Zwartboek is compelling. Pacing is tight and Carice van Houten gives a powerful performance in the main role. The rest of the cast is solid, but van Houten owns the movie with her nuanced portrayal.But Verhoeven, known for being daring, chickened out. Rachel, a young Jewish woman whose family was murdered by Nazis, joins the Dutch resistance and becomes a Mata Hari-like spy. However, Muntze (Sebastian Koch), the German officer she sleeps with to gather informations, happens to be a decent, charming fellow who refuses to kill POWs and civilians and yearns for peace and love - so much, in fact, that she falls in love with him. Two days after meeting Rachel, Muntze finds out she is a spy and, unbelievably, it doesn't bother him. Instead of having her arrested and executed, they have an earnest chat and continue their relationship. Wait, what?The problem is, making him so squeaky-clean robs the movie of any sense of moral conflict on Rachel's side. The character of Muntze should have had more of an edge.Likewise, Rachel's duties as she pretends to work with the Nazis are quite anodyne and neutral - she has to copy reports and decorate rooms with Nazi flags. You never get from this cooperation the feeling of dreadful moral compromise which would have given the heroine more depth and self-loathing.Given the premise, Zwartboek is surprisingly tame. Sure, van Houten spends so much time bare-breasted that she probably caught a cold but, for a war movie about a Mata Hari kind of spy, the result is almost bland and pulls too many punches - with some exceptions, like a painful scene of humiliation ending with a shower of manure.Zwartboek lacks subtlety in terms of characterization: not a surprise if you know Verhoeven. There isn't any depth to these people; yes, we get the final twist, but it isn't as earth-shattering as Verhoeven seems to believe: not all German officers were monsters and not all resistance members were saints. Duh. Hardly a revelation.This is competent film-making with good performances, nothing more.6,5/10

Shout it from the roof-tops: after years spent churning out enjoyable action movies (Total Recall, Robocop), iconic "erotic thrillers" (Basic Instinct) and utter, utter tripe (Showgirls, Hollow Man, Starship Troopers), Paul Verhoeven has turned Serious. Out go the overwrought action sequences, the gratuitous nudity and the obsession with bodily fluids. In come the sensitivity, the subtlety, the delicate touch that a film about Jews and Nazis in WWII surely require. Just kidding. Verhoven couldn't be subtle if his life depended on it. Sensitivity? Get real. Delicate touch? This is war. And what a curious war it is. People – even the most downtrodden – wear immaculate, brand-new clothes straight out of the wardrobe department. Our heroine gets shot in the head, and her charming little scar lasts almost two entire scenes before it is dispensed with altogether. Most ludicrously of all, when a man takes a bullet in the shoulder he is advised not to worry – "it's just a flesh wound". Ah yes, the old flesh wound routine. Cue close-up of pincers extracting said bullet from said flesh. Seconds later, the fortunate victim is up and about and back to his usual self. Wonderful things, flesh wounds. Verhoeven has obviously seen the same recent war films that everyone else has. Unfortunately he has not learned anything from them. He is still labouring under the impression that nudity, obscenity, and endless violence are the hallmarks of seriousness and profundity. Anyone who might disagree with him just doesn't get it. Don't you know the man is an Artist? Don't you know that nothing can compromise his unyielding vision? What Spielberg and Polanski understood instinctively when it was their turn to tackle WWII was that while the horror demanded to be shown, there had to be more than that. Humanity was what they brought to the table, and their audiences left the cinema reeling because they had seen something recognisable and terrible. Verhoeven doesn't seem to care about humanity at all. Perhaps he prefers robots, and guns, and Michael Douglas. He seems unaware of what actually happens to a person when they go through violence and torment and abuse. His doll-like heroine starts the film as she ends it – unaffected by the vile events that have occurred. But if she is unaffected, what about us? If none of these things seem to actually matter, then what are we doing sitting through them? I can imagine well enough, thank you, what it might look like when you pour a vat of faeces over a half-naked actress. But how does it feel? What effect will it have on the character? None, apparently: the sh*t happens, and in the very next scene she is back to her old self – blonde and bubbly and perfect. So, that's alright then. She sees her entire family wiped out by Nazis – an event that supposedly drives her to seek revenge - but she doesn't seem particularly to miss them or care about them once they are gone. So why should we? Clearly, Verhoeven wants to make his own Schindler, his own Pianist. What he has created instead is a shrill mish-mash of grotesquery and camp. He will, I am sure, condemn anyone who has the gall to laugh at inappropriate moments during his very important movie. My favourite such moment came early on when the Comedy Nazi, looking down on the grisly results of his handiwork, said, in close-up, one simple word: "Excellent". My laughter was a genuine, human response to a terrible event rendered banal by a bad artist. When Verhoeven sticks to action-packed blockbusters he is on safe ground. As soon as he tries to be Important he is doomed. No doubt he will say of his detractors that they just don't understand what he is doing. On the contrary, I understand perfectly well – I just wish he would stop doing it. The Black Book is all surface, no feeling. Nothing hurts, nothing matters: it's just a flesh wound.Update, April 2007. I wrote the above after seeing the film at the London Film Festival in October 2006. It is reassuring to see that my favourite film critic, Anthony Lane, would seem to agree with many of the points I made back then. (April 9th, 2007 issue of the New Yorker)

I must admit that I don't like to watch dutch movies that much. Most of the time the acting is pretty bad and if they use some kind of cgi in the movies its one from the 1980's.This movie really surprised me. Quite good acting from most of the actors. And the general view of the Alliance is good and the Germans are bad isn't presented. The movie shows both sides, the good the bad (and the ugly) behaviors of the people during the war.Although he didn't have a very big budget to make this movie (between 16-20 million dollars) which is nothing for Hollywood matters, he'd made quite a good movie from it.If you want to watch a movie about WWII that isn't like most of the movies made about this war, go and watch this one. You wont be bored for the next 2,5 hours.

The first movie of Paul Verhoeven since more than 20 years could only turn out to be a disappointment. But fortunately it is not. It is a very impressive and exciting and dramatic story of a Jewish girl that gets involved in the Resistance-movement in World War 2. When she wants to escape the Germans she finds her family killed in front of her eyes. She is rescued and becomes an important member of the Dutch Resistance. She has to act like a spy at the headquarters of the SD and even has to sleep with the head of the SD, who happens to turn out to be the only good German in the movie. I won't tell you what happens, but the movie gives a very good impression of the terrors of war, what people do in these circumstances, the thin line between good and bad and betrayal. The movie was beautifully shot and Carice van Houten is incredible in this movie. Zwartboek is a typical Paul Verhoeven-movie with some nudity and heavy in your face-scenes and provocative and unexpected things that happen. Zwartboek could be the winner of the Oscars for foreign movies next year as far as I am concerned. Also a special credit for the German actor who plays general Franken. Go and see Zwartboek (Black Book): it's a movie that will keep you thinking for quite some while

BLACK BOOK has a lot going for it: outstanding production values, some fine performances, and lots of action. Action galore- and then, even more. And that's what's at the heart of what's wrong with this movie: it never pauses long enough, at any point, to build some much-needed suspense. Everything happens in a much too quick "and-then-she-joined-the-resistance-and-they-got-ratted-out" manner; the storytelling isn't carefully measured, it's rushed, as if getting as many shots in the can as quick as possible was the director's overriding concern. The fact that the camera almost never stops moving suggests as much (it's a common practice in low budget film-making). To cite but one example: the scene where the son of the leader of the resistance is being tortured. There's absolutely no suspense whatsoever in this scene (a pivotal moment in such a film, one would think). Had this one been pared down to a handful of essential scenes and had those scenes been thoroughly thought out and presented, BLACK BOOK might've felt a little less like a rush job. And that's no rush to judgement, either.

I just saw this film earlier today & was blown out of my shoes by it. Black Book (or Zwartboek,as it's called in Europe)is directed & co written by Paul Verhoeven (with Gerard Soetman,who collaborated with Verhoeven on many screenplays for films in his native Holland). If you've ever seen their earlier film 'Soldier Of Orange', you'll know what I mean. Like 'Orange', the film clocks in at near two & a half hours, but there's not a dull moment in store. This makes up for the load of Hollywood crap that Verhoeven has been responsible for since he drifted over here (even his last European film, 'Flesh & Blood',left a lot to be desired for). The film deals with a young Dutch woman of Jewish background that joins the resistance to fight the Nazi's. I would have to say that this is a film well worth seeking out (provided you have no problem with two plus hours of dialog in Dutch,German & even Hebrew with subtitles).

"Black Book" may be based on a true story, but it often plays more like a corny wartime melodrama than a serious film about war. Suffice it to say, it has a lot of beautiful and glamorous people running around doing a lot of cloak-and-dagger espionage stuff - all while changing the course of history. That's not to say it isn't an enjoyable and entertaining picture, just that it doesn't rank up there in artistry and truth with the great European films about the Fascist era, classics like "Open City," "Forbidden Games," "The Shop on Main Street," "Das Boot," etc. When you boil it down to the bare essentials, the theme of "Black Book" seems to be that there's nothing like a little hair coloring and a bar of chocolate to help an attractive young girl survive the horrors of war.Rachel Stein is a beautiful Jewish singer whose entire family is mowed down by the Nazis as they are fleeing occupied Holland (Rachel and her family are Germans currently hiding out in the Netherlands). As the sole survivor of the attack, Rachel quickly becomes active in the Dutch resistance, her assignment being to cozy up to a high-ranking Gestapo officer who has taken a liking to her. Soon she finds herself not only in bed with the Nazi but quite possibly in love with him as well.Paul Verhoeven has directed the film much in the style of his big-scale Hollywood productions ("Robocop," "Total Recall") - that is to say with a great deal of energy but not a lot of emotion. The convoluted storyline often becomes muddled and difficult to follow, but Verhoeven compensates for this weakness by keeping the proceedings moving at a breakneck pace (which is a good thing since the film takes an exhausting two hours and twenty-five minutes to tell its story). Unfortunately, the movie has been fitted with a musical score that sounds as if it has been lifted from some third-rate espionage thriller from the 1960's. Carice van Houten has brio and spunk as the movie's heroine, running around from one dire predicament and hairbreadth escape to another - she's almost like a Dutch version of the perpetually imperiled Pauline - but most of the other actors simply get lost in the shuffle. And if you've ever doubted that chocolate is, indeed, the answer to all of life's problems, you will never do so again after seeing this movie.I must say that, even though I enjoyed the film immensely, "Black Book" is probably the first serious film about Nazis that actually had me chuckling at wholly inappropriate places (some of the actors even hold their guns in a funny way). "Black Book" may be a Dutch film by rights, but it's strictly from Hollywood in its silliness and corn.

Black Book is a women's film, about a rich young Jewess, formerly a pop singer, trying to survive in Nazi-occupied Holland. Sadly, director Paul Verhoeven does not understand women and nor does he know how to convey emotion. A glance at his Hollywood CV would have warned the producers. The result is an empty depiction of events, in which the heroine Rachel (Carice Van Houten) acts like Robocop (an earlier Verhoeven effort). Along the way, we get some lingering shots of her tits and a few seconds of her bare bottom. Neither views suit a women's film, a signal that something is very wrong. The motivation of Verhoeven's heroine is contorted, as her family and lover are wiped out before her eyes and she makes a narrow blood-spattered escape, yet does not for a moment shed a tear for them, nor suspect the people who sent them to their fate. Instead, she has unmotivated sex with a resistance member before going into the Nazi headquarters and seducing the Gestapo chief, whom she treats with bizarrely sudden love and affection. Her ostensible purpose is to save three resistance men from torture. Instead, she places a microphone in the torturer's office, and she and her colleagues listen to him having noisy sex. Her motive fades even further into the background as Verhoeven makes a meal of the Nazi setting, presumably to appeal to his German market. This is a thoroughly unpleasant film made by a very cynical and sociopathic film-maker, and it deserves to be blasted into oblivion by the idiotic "Inglourious Basterds", which has the merit of being sheer fantasy and frank wish-fulfilment.

It's hard to overstate what a superb film "Black Book" is. Thanks to the excellent reviews the Chicago papers gave it, I sauntered off to see it without my wife who foolishly dismissed it as "another Holocaust film" (that's as off-base as calling "Freedom Writers" "another school teacher inspirational film). After being blown away by "Black Book," it was easy to persuade my wife to see it a week later -- and she too was blown away. You're best off not knowing much of the plot -- this film takes twists and turns that amaze and astound. The less you know about it, the better. Let's just say that the writing, plotting, direction, and acting are all top notch -- better than any other film I've seen all year. No scene is wasted. "Black Book" is one of those films where something that happens early on comes back as an important plot point later in the film. So while you're enjoying this wild roller-coaster emotional ride, pay attention to the details and what people say -- because not a word is wasted."Black Book" is simply film making at its best. There are some darn good reasons that "Black Book" is still playing in several Chicago theaters nearly 4 months after its release.